The Project Gutenberg eBook of The botanist's repository for new and rare plants; vol. 7
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The botanist's repository for new and rare plants; vol. 7

Author: active 1799-1828 Henry Cranke Andrews

Release date: April 10, 2024 [eBook #73371]

Language: English

Original publication: London: The author, 1797

Credits: Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by Biodiversity Heritage Library.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOTANIST'S REPOSITORY FOR NEW AND RARE PLANTS; VOL. 7 ***





                            [Illustration:

                             _Vol. =VII=_

                               _of the_

                         Botanists Repository

                              _Comprising
                         Colour’d Engravings_

                                  of

                         _New and Rare Plants_

                                 ONLY

                   With Botanical Descriptions, &c.

                            ---- _in_ ----

                          _Latin and English,
                              after the_

                            Linnæan System,

                                  _by
                              H. Andrews_

                   _Botanical Painter Engraver &c._
                                   ]




PLATE CCCCXXXIII.

AGAVE AMERICANA.

_Great American Aloe._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX nullus. Corolla monopetala, sex-partita. Stamina sena,
     corolla longiora. Germen inferum. Stylus longior staminibus.
     Capsula trilocularis, trivalvis. Semina numerosa.

     EMPALEMENT none. Blossom one-petalled, six-parted. Chives six,
     longer than the blossom. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft longer than the
     chives. Capsule three-celled, three-valved. Seeds many.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     AGAVE, acaulis, foliis dentatis, spinosis: scapo e medio ramoso:
     floribus terminalibus in umbellis densissime capitatis: tubo
     corollæ læte viridi, e medio angustato: staminibus corolla
     longioribus: stylo staminibus longiore.

     AGAVE, without a stem; leaves toothed and thorny: flower-stem in
     the centre branched: the flowers terminate the branches in
     close-headed umbels: the tube of the blossom is greenish, and
     narrowed in the centre: the chives are longer than the flowers, and
     the style longer than the chives.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A plant in miniature.
    2. A flower natural size.
    3. The same spread open.
    4. Seed-bud cut transversely.
    5. The end of a leaf, the upper part scraped
         to show its thready fibres.


This tall and stately plant has ever been regarded, in this country, as
an object of sufficient interest and curiosity to merit an exposure in
the form of an exhibition; whilst in the southern parts of Spain and
Portugal they are so abundant as to form hedges, by way of barriers to
repress the inroads of cattle. There are several very slight varieties;
one of whose leaves are edged with yellow, but the same in every other
respect. Miller enumerates one whose paniculated flowers bear a very
different aspect. Cortusus is said to be the first European that
possessed this great Aloe, about the year 1561: in 1714 two flowered at
Hampton Court, and one at the duke of Buckingham’s. At Friedericksberg,
in Denmark, one flowered with 19 branches and 4000 flowers; and one in
the king of Prussia’s garden, said to be 40 feet high. They are now more
frequently found in bloom, as rarely a year passes without one or more
of them being advertised for public inspection. In addition to their
grand exterior, they possess many useful properties: Cavanilles, in his
Natural History of Valentia, mentions their abundance, and the numbers
of people employed in manufacturing them; for, when bruised, separated,
and steeped in water, they yield a strong thread, of which all the bags
are made in which dollars are imported. The juice of the leaves is said
to be used as a succedaneum for soap, and the spungy substance of the
stem for tinder. The points of the leaves are by the Indians made use of
to head their arrows, whose hard consistence is a good substitute for
iron; and the thready character of their fibres furnishes all that is
necessary to fasten them. Linnæus has separated this genus from Aloe,
from the extension of the stamens and style beyond the corolla, and the
resting of the corolla on the germ: they also differ in growth, as all
Agaves have their central leaves closely enfoliating and embracing the
flower-stem, which, forming in the centre, never appears till they are
expanded; it then proceeds with a rapidity that in a few weeks reaches
maturity, and when the flowers are past the plant dies. On the contrary,
the flower-stem of the Aloe comes out from the side annually from the
same plant. Our figure was made from two plants at Kensington Gore, each
bearing 2000 flowers, and about 70 years old, belonging to J. Vere, Esq.
who perfectly recollects them for above half a century: but in those
warmer climes, where they are so abundant, 25 or 30 years are sufficient
to bring them to perfection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXXIV.

PULTENÆA NANA.

_Dwarf Pultenæa._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinquedentatus, utrinque appendiculatus. Corolla
     papilionacea, alis vexillo brevioribus, Legumen uniloculare,
     dispermum.

     CUP five-toothed, with a hanging prop on each side. Blossom
     butterfly-shaped, the wings shorter than the standard. A one-celled
     pod, two-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PULTENÆA, foliis iliciformibus, undulatis, contortis, rigidis,
     acutis: floribus minii colore, axillaribus, racemosis. Caulis
     humilis.

     PULTENÆA, with holly-shaped leaves, waved, twisted, harsh, and
     sharp-pointed. Flowers minium-coloured, growing from the insertion
     of the leaves in longish bunches. Stem low.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

     1. The cup, with its appendages.
     2. The standard of the blossom.
     3. One of the wings of the same.
     4. The two leaves which form the keel.
     5. The chives magnified.
     6. The pointal, natural size.
     7. The same magnified.
     8. A ripe seed-pod.
     9. The same spread open.
    10. A ripe seed.


This lively little Dwarf Pultenæa we have not as yet seen any where but
in the conservatory of G. Hibbert, Esq. where, contrasted with many
large magnificent plants, its minute and diminutive form made a
perfectly unique appearance. When we first observed it, its height did
not exceed an inch and a half. Our figure represents the whole plant,
which for six months was in progressive constant bloom, and after
flowering ripened its seeds freely; an evident proof of the plant being
in a state of perfection. It is now three months since the plant
perfected its seeds, during which period we have not perceived the least
increase in its size. But, notwithstanding this apparent torpidity, it
is now exhibiting the buds of its future blossoms. It has been imagined
by some to be the Chorizema of Billardiere, a new plant found by that
gentleman in New South Wales whilst in search of the unfortunate La
Perouse; but, upon comparing it with the figure in that work, we do not
find a sufficient resemblance to induce us to regard it as the same
plant.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXXV.

VERBENA MUTABILIS.

_Changeable-flowered Vervain._


CLASS II. ORDER I.

_DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Two Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA infundibuliformis, sub-æqualis, curva. Calyx unifoliatus,
     dentatus, truncatus. Sem. 2, s. 4. nuda. Stam. 2, s. 4.

     BLOSSOM funnel-shaped, nearly equal, and curved. Empalement
     one-leafed, toothed, and cut off. Seeds 2, sometimes 4, naked.
     Chives 2, sometimes 4.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     VERBENA diandra, filamenta quatuor: spica longissima, carnosa,
     nuda: foliis ovatis, basi productis, dentatis, scabris, villosis:
     floribus imprimis coccineis, denique incarnatis: caule fruticoso.

     VERBENA, with two chives and four filaments. Flower-spike very
     long, fleshy, and naked. Leaves ovate, lengthened at the base,
     toothed, rough, and hairy. Flowers at first scarlet, then going off
     in a flesh colour. Stem shrubby.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A flower cut open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


The native place of the Verbena mutabilis seems rather enveloped in
obscurity: by some it is supposed to be indigenous to Peru. It is a
beautiful plant, and the most desirable Verbena we are acquainted with,
as it is at least six months in successive bloom. It is one of those
Verbenas that, differing a little from the general character of that
genus, has received various titles from different botanists: by
Professor Vahl, in his Enumeratio Plantarum, it is called
Stachytarpheta. The present species has been recently figured in the
Paradisus Londinensis under the title of Cymburus mutabilis, and
probably at some future period it may again receive another title: but
until we can find some better path to lead us into the open plain or
Information, we shall keep jogging on in the old beaten track, in
preference to every crooked turning that may bewilder us into the mazy
labyrinth of affected Science. Our figure was made from a fine plant in
the nursery of Messrs. Colville.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXXVI.

CORRÆA VIRIDIFLORA.

_Green-flowered Corræa._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX monophyllus, quadri-dentatus. Corolla petala quatuor. Stamina
     octo. Germen superum. Capsula quadrilocularis. Semina quatuor.

     EMPALEMENT one-leafed, four-toothed. Blossom four-petalled. Eight
     chives. Seed-bud above. Capsule four cells, and four seeds.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CORRÆA, foliis oblongis, oppositis, undulatis, stellatim hirsutis,
     supra viridibus, subtus ferrugineis: foliis junioribus
     conniventibus, flores dum parvos obscurantibus, qui postea emergunt
     ex axillis foliorum, et dependent. Corolla viridis, leviter
     punctata, petalis adhærentibus in forma cylindrica. Rami oppositi,
     ferruginei.

     CORRÆA, with oblong opposite leaves, waved, and beset with divers
     starlike specks; green on the upper surface and rusty beneath: the
     younger leaves connive together, and obscure the flowers when
     young, which afterwards emerge from the axillæ of the leaves, and
     hang down. Blossom green, and lightly dotted, the petals adhering
     in the form of a tube. The branches are opposite, and rusty.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom detached from the cup.
    3. A flower spread open.
    4. One of the longest chives.
    5. One of the shorter ones.
    6. Seed-bud and pointal.
    7. Seed-bud magnified.


This green-flowered Corræa is by no means so desirable a plant as the
alba, but is the only addition to this genus as yet in cultivation with
us, and as such deserving notice. It has been already figured in the
Exotic Botany of Dr. Smith, but very imperfectly, as it is there
represented with only two divisions in the corolla instead of four, and
six antheræ instead of eight--a deficiency we have not met with: and
although we have examined a number of living and dried specimens, yet we
have always found it perfect in those characters essential to the genus.
The only variation we have ever observed has been sometimes a
super-abundance of petals in the corolla; (instead of a deficiency) five
instead of four, a frequent occurrence in many genera when the plant is
in a state of luxuriant growth: and certainly little illustration, but
much confusion, might probably arise from giving a figure from any
specimen so very defective. We find this genus published by Billardiere
under the title Mazeutoxeron--our present figure under the specific of
rufum--an excellent specific, were it not a striking feature in every
species of this genus, living or dried, that we have as yet seen. Our
figure was made from a plant in the collection of G. Hibbert, Esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXXVII.

PROTEA CANALICULATA.

_Channelled-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4 petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apicem insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or four petals. Tips linear, inserted into the
     petals below the ends. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA, foliis canaliculatis, incurvatis, rigidis, linearibus,
     acutis: floribus purpureis, terminalibus: caule rubro.

     PROTEA, with channelled leaves, incurved, harsh, linear, and
     sharp-pointed: flowers purple, and terminating the branches: stem
     red.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. One of the scales of the empalement.
    2. The chives magnified.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


This fine Protea is of recent introduction, within the last four or five
years, from the Cape of Good Hope to the gardens of G. Hibbert, Esq.
From the particular strong channel on the back of its leaves we have
adopted its specific title, and have no doubt that a feature so visible
in every stage of the plant will always discriminate it. The leaves are
enlivened by such brilliant red stalks, as, in addition to its flower,
render it an attractive object: nor is it so difficult to preserve as
many of them are; for the greatest of care is requisite to preserve
numbers of this fine tribe from the damps of this island, an enemy they
are so little accustomed to in their native clime.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXXVIII.

PROTEA SPECIOSA.

_Showy Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4 petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Sem. solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA, foliis lanceolatis, obliquis, pilosis, undulatis: squamis
     calycinis superioribus, lanceolatis, barbatis, luteo-albis; squamis
     infra lato-ovatis, tomentosis, barbatis, apice discoloratis: caulis
     erectus, tripedalis.

     PROTEA, with leaves lance-shaped, oblique, hairy, and waved: the
     upper scales of the empalement are lance-shaped, bearded, and of a
     yellowish white: the scales beneath are broadly ovate, downy,
     bearded, and discoloured towards the ends. Stem erect, and three
     feet high.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A blossom, the petals spread to show the situation of the chives.
    2. The seed-bud and pointal.


This fine large Protea we believe is not at present in any other
collection in Europe, but that of G. Hibbert, esq. It is enumerated in
the Hortus Kewensis under the name of Protea speciosa, but the plant
itself has been long lost to those gardens. Thunberg, in his
dissertation on Protea, describes our plant exactly, under the
appellation of speciosa: and, that no doubt might remain with respect to
the specific adopted, our figure has been compared with a remarkable
fine specimen in the herbarium of A. B. Lambert, esq., sent by Dr.
Roxburgh from the Cape of Good Hope under the title of “Protea speciosa
of Hottentot Island.” It is undoubtedly one of the grandest of this fine
section of Protea; for as a section of this numerous family it will
always be better understood than it can possibly be as a discriminative
specific. This extended tribe will, we think, admit of at least four or
five partitions, but not Generic divisions, for we can by no means agree
with those who think every slight variation of sufficient consequence to
form new genera; and in this genus think it more objectionable than in
any other. The title of Protea being derived from the God Proteus of
ever-varying form, the more removed this tribe of plants are in their
externa facie from each other, so much the better do they support their
mythologic title.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXXXIX.

STAPELIA ORBICULARIS.

_Orbicular Stapelia._


CLASS V. ORDER II.

_PENTANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Five Chives. Two Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium quinquefidum, acutum, parvum, persistens.

     COROLLA. Monopetala, crassa, quinquefida, acuta, contorta.

     _Nectaria_ duplicia, stelliformia; superiore genitalia tegente.

STAMINA sub-sessilia, ad nectarium adhærentia. Antheræ bifidæ.

PISTILLA. Germina duo, oblonga, acuminata. Styli duo, subulati. Stigma
utroque commune, magnum, crassum, pentagonum.

PERICARPIUM. Folliculi duo, uniloculares, univalves.

SEMINA numerosa, pappo coronata.

EMPALEMENT. Cup five-cleft, sharp, small, and remaining.

BLOSSOM one-petalled, thick, five-parted, pointed, and twisted.

     _Honey-cups_ double and starlike; the upper nectary hiding the
     parts of fructification.

CHIVES nearly sessile, and attached to the nectary. Tips two-cleft.

POINTAL. Seed-buds two, oblong, and tapered. Shafts two, awl-shaped.
Summit common to both, large, thick, and five-cornered.

SEED-VESSEL. Two pods, one-celled, one-valved.

SEEDS numerous, and crowned with a feather.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     STAPELIA orbicularis; ramis pluribus, erecto-patentibus,
     tetragonis, dentatis; corollis quinquefidis, in medio orbiculatis,
     densissime punctatis; laciniis cordatis, rugosis, striatis,
     fuscatis.

     STAPELIA with orbicular flowers; branches numerous, erect and
     spreading, four-sided, and toothed; blossom five-cleft, rounded in
     the centre, and closely dotted; segments of the border are
     heart-shaped, wrinkled, and striped with brown.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement, nectaries, chives and pointals.
    2. The nectaries, chives, and pointals, magnified.
    3. A section of the above, magnified.
    4. The same shown in a side direction, to expose the
         situation of the chives.
    5. The seed-buds, shafts, and summit.


This perfectly new Stapelia we have not met with in any other collection
but that of Messrs. Loddige, from whom we received it under the title of
orbicularis, a specific derived from the circular centre of the flower a
very discriminative appellation; and, although not exclusively the
character of this species, is much more distinctly marked in this plant
than in any other we have as yet seen. Upon comparing our figure with
forty-one species described and figured by Mr. F. Masson, not any
affinity could be discerned powerful enough to render a reference by any
means requisite: there is a sombre appearance annexed to almost all the
flowers of this most curious tribe, and they more resemble pieces of
mechanism than the vegetable productions of nature. They require but
little water in summer, and still less in winter; should be carefully
sheltered from rain and frost, and they will succeed very well, and are
easily propagated by slips from the joints, but very rarely seed in this
country. Natives of the Cape of Good Hope, and are called Stapelias
after a Dutch botanist of the name of Stapel.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXL.

SOPHORA SERICEA.

_Silky-leaved Sophora._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinquedentatus, superne gibbus. Corolla papillonacea, alis
     longitudine vexilli. Pericarpium, legumen.

     EMPALEMENT five-toothed, the upper ones gibbose, or gouty. Blossom
     butterfly-shaped, with the wings the length of the standard.
     Seed-vessel, a pod.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     SOPHORA, foliis sericeis, oblongis, alternatis, pilo mollissimo
     lucido omnino tectis, apice acutis, revolutis, ad basin stipulis
     parvis; floribus simplicibus, axillaribus, pallide purpureis;
     caulis argenteus.

     SOPHORA with silky leaves, oblong, alternate, and entirely covered
     by a very soft shining hair, sharp-pointed, and rolled back, with
     small stipulæ at their base; flowers grow singly from the axillae
     of the leaves, and of a pale purple; stem silvery.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The standard.
    3. One of the wings.
    4. The keel.
    5. The chives and pointal.
    6. The same magnified.
    7. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


This delicate Sophora may literally be said to be an old plant with a
new face, as we have been long familiar with the foliage, but entirely
unacquainted with its flowers, till very lately we found it in luxuriant
bloom (and we believe for the first time in this country) in the
conservatory of G. Hibbert, esq. this month (December), probably not the
regular period of its inflorescence, but the effect of casualty assisted
by the uncommon mildness of the season. It would be a vain endeavour to
attempt to do justice to the beautiful shining silky appearance of the
leaves; and when aided by its delicate purple flowers, its attraction is
equal, if not superior, to any of the genus. The want of freedom in its
flowering is a defect not entirely confined to this species only, but is
in some degree attached to most Sophoras. It is a native of the Cape of
Good Hope, and requires as much air as can with safety be administered
to it in this country.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXLI.

EPIDENDRUM FUSCATUM.

_Brown-flowered Epidendrum._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointals. Two Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     NECTARIUM turbinatum, obliquum, reflexum.

     HONEY-CUP top-shaped, oblique, and reflexed. See Pl. XIII. Vol. I.
     Epidendrum cochleatum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     EPIDENDRUM, foliis lanceolatis, caulem vagina alterne tegentibus,
     contortis, atro-purpureo discoloratis; floribus umbellatis
     terminalibus fuscatis, leviter punctatis, vel striatis.

     EPIDENDRUM, with lance-shaped leaves, alternately sheathing the
     stem, twisted, and discoloured with a deep purple; flowers
     terminate the branches in umbels, of a brownish colour, dotted or
     striped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The nectary, or honey-cup.
    2. The blossom detached.
    3. The seed-bud, chives, and pointal, the hood
         lifted up that covers the chives.
    4. The same magnified.


Amongst this numerous parasitic tribe there are many whose claim to
beauty is by no means powerful, and certainly the present figure has
little to boast of in that particular: but the singular and curious
structure of their flowers will always render every new species and even
distinct varieties desirable, particularly as they are an essential
connecting link in the interesting family of the Orchidiæ. We were at
first inclined to regard it as the E. fuscatum of Dr. Smith on rare
plants; but on comparison with that figure we found it in foliage nearly
the same, but so different both in the size and colour of its flowers,
that, if it might be regarded as a variety, it must certainly be a very
distinct one. It is a native of Jamaica, and as such requires the
protection of the stove. From a plant plunged in the tan-bed our drawing
was made at the gardens of G. Hibbert, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXLII.

PROTEA PULCHELLA, _Var. speciosa_.

_Waved-leaved Protea, Speciosa Variety._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4 petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Sem. solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or four petals. Tips linear, inserted into the
     petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA, foliis lanceolatis, undulatis, rubro marginatis, pilosis;
     squamis calycis tricoloratis; capitulo-erecto, terminali: caule
     ramoso, bipedali.

     PROTEA, with lance-shaped leaves, waved, margined with red, and
     hairy; scales of the cup three-coloured: flower-head upright, and
     terminal: stem branching, and two feet high.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement and chives.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal.


Our figure represents so evident a variation of the Protea pulchella,
that it probably should be only regarded as a fine large flowering
variety; but as it exhibits a strong affinity in the flowers to that
fine section of Protea called Speciosa, it is certainly better to
denominate it a variety of that species, than to adhere too closely to
the appellation of its original, whose specific is of too
indiscriminative a character to be adopted any further than the
acceptation of it already may have rendered necessary. The only method
to avoid confusion in this extended varying tribe in future, will be to
make as few species as possible in addition to those already made,
unless they can be founded upon some apparent leading feature in the
plant. Our drawing was made from the Hibbertian collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXLIII.

ERYTHRINA SPECIOSA.

_Showy Erythrina._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Chives in two sets. Ten chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, integrum, tubulosum, ore superne
     emarginatum, inferne poris melliferis instructum.

     COROLLA. Papilionacea.

     _Vexillum_ lanceolatum, lateribus deflexum, adscendens,
     longissimum.

     _Alæ_ sub-ovatæ, calyce vix longiores, extra tubum vexilli vix
     eminentes, minimæ.

     _Carina_ recta, longitudine alarum, dipetala, emarginata.

     STAMINA. Filamenta diadelpha, filamenta decem, inferne connata,
     parum incurva, longitudine dimidii vexilli, inequalia, sagittata.

     PISTILLUM. Germen pedicellatum, subulatum, attenuatum in stylum
     subulatum, longitudine staminum. Stigma terminale, simplex.

     PERICARPIUM. Legumen longissimum, ac seminis nondum tumidis
     acuminate terminatum, uniloculare.

     SEMINA reniformia.

     Obs. _E._ Herbacea staminibus decem distinctis.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leafed, entire and tubular, emarginated on the upper
part, the part beneath with little pores containing honey.

BLOSSOM. Butterfly-shaped.

_Standard_ lance-shaped, bowing sideways, ascending, and very long.

_Wings_ nearly egg-shaped and scarcely longer than the tube of the
empalement, outside the standard and very small.

_Keel_ straight out, the length of the wings, two-petalled and
emarginated.

CHIVES. Threads in two sets, ten threads joined together beneath,
slightly turned inwards, half the length of the standard, unequal, and
arrow-headed.

POINTAL. Seed-bud with a footstalk awl-shaped, and tapering into the
shaft, which is awl-shaped, and of the length of the stamens. Summit
terminating simple.

SEED-VESSEL. A very long pod, and before the seeds are swelled out
terminated with a sharp point; of one cell.

SEEDS kidney-shaped.

     Obs. E. Herbacea has ten distinct stamens.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ERYTHRINA speciosa, foliis magnis, ternatis; foliolis cordatis,
     subtus nervosis aculeatis. Caulis tripedalis, erectus, spinosus,
     viridis.

     ERYTHRINA with showy flowers, leaves large and three-divided;
     leaflets heart-shaped, with prickly nerves on the under side. Stem
     three feet high, upright, thorny, and green.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. The standard.
    4. One of the wings.
    5. The keel.
    6. The chives spread open.
    7. Seed-bud and pointal.


This superb Erythrina was communicated to the author by A. B. Lambert,
esq., with whom it flowered in the month of November, for the first time
in this kingdom. It is at present treated as a hot-house plant, but Mr.
Lambert informs us that it is perfectly hardy, and strikes so freely
that, although at present it is a nondescript and very rare plant, it
will, doubtless, soon make its appearance in most collections: its
splendid flowers and easy culture will soon recommend it into general
notice. There are but five species of this genus yet known; the present
subject will therefore be a valuable addition to the number. The falling
off of the leaves is its only defect, which we have no doubt but a
hardier mode of treatment will remove. It is supposed to be a native of
South America.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXLIV.

LOBELIA HIRSUTA.

_Hairy Lobelia._


CLASS XIX. ORDER VI.

_SYNGENESIS MONOGAMIA._ Tips united. Flowers simple.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-fidus. Corolla 1-petala, irregularis. Capsula infera 2-seu
     3-locularis.

     CUP 5-cleft. Blossom, 1-petalled, irregular. Capsule beneath, 2 or
     3 celled.

     See Pl. CCLXXIII. Vol. IV. Lobelia pinifolia.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LOBELIA foliis hirsutis, inferioribus oblongis, dentatis, hirsutis;
     floribus albis, solitariis axillaribus; pedunculis elongatis;
     stigmatibus obtusis, pilosis; caule fruticosa, pilosa, petente.

     LOBELIA with hairy leaves; the lower ones are oblong, toothed and
     hirsute: flowers white, and grow singly from the base of the
     leaves: foot-stalks lengthened: summits blunt, and hairy: Stem
     shrubby, hairy, and spreading.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The flower and chives spread open and magnified.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


The Lobelias are an extensive family, but in a very confused state at
present; not many of them having been described, and almost all that
have been figured are blue flowers, a scarce colour in most genera,
although so prevalent in this, and most probably to the attraction of
this colour is chiefly owing the notice already taken of them: for, as
beautiful little annuals, they have an irresistible claim to our
attention. Our present subject does not possess the charm of colour, but
from its lively white flowers and constant succession of bloom it is
well deserving a place in the green-house. Our figure represents an
entire plant, taken from the Cape Nursery of Messrs. Middlemist and
Wood, near Shepherd’s Bush on the Edgware Road.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXLV.

EPIDENDRUM LINEARE.

_Linear-leaved Epidendrum._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     NECTARIUM turbinatum, obliquum, reflexum.

     HONEY-CUP top-shaped, oblique, and reflexed. See Pl. XIII. Vol. I.
     Epidendrum cochleatum.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     EPIDENDRUM, foliis linearibus, caulem vagina alterne tegantibus,
     apice crenatis: floribus terminalibus, spicatis, alternatis,
     purpureis; caulis juncinus, longus, gracilis.

     EPIDENDRUM, with linear leaves, alternately sheathing the stem, and
     notched at the end: flowers terminate the branches in a spike,
     alternate, and purple: stem rush-like, long, and slender.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The blossom without the honey-cup, spread open to show the chives.
    2. The same magnified.
    3. The honey-cup magnified.
    4. The pointal magnified.


In the Icones of Jacquin we find a figure of this Epidendrum, under the
appellation we have adopted, but evidently taken from a dried specimen,
with a reference to the Icones of Father Plumier 182, fig. 1. under the
title of Heleborine; but on comparison we find no affinity sufficiently
powerful to induce us to regard them as representing the same plant. In
Plumier’s figure there is no incisure at the end of the leaves, a
specific character in our plant; the rest of the figure is also too
obscure to admit of comparison. The plant, from its long and slender
stalks, acquires a graceful bend when in flower. As a native of Jamaica
it requires the tan-bed of the hot-stove for its protection; and, like
many other tropical plants, is subject to lose much of its beauty by the
loss of the leaves on the lower part of the stem. Our figure was made
from the Hibbertian Collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXLVI.

DOLICHOS HIRTUS.

_Hairy-stemmed Dolichos._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Chives in two sets. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     VEXILLUM callis duobus ad basin, parallelis, oblongis, alis subtus
     comprimentibus.

     STANDARD with two callosities at the base; parallel, and of an
     oblong form; the wings beneath binding together.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     DOLICHOS hirtus; caule volubili, tecto ferrugineis pilosis;
     floribus luteis striatis rubris; foliis ternatis; foliolis
     sub-cordatis, subtus pilosis; stipulis duabus ad basin; radice
     tuberosa.

     DOLICHOS with a hairy stem: the stalk is twining, and covered with
     rusty hairs: flowers are yellow, and striped with red: leaves
     ternate; leaflets nearly heart-shaped, and hairy beneath, with two
     stipulæ at their base: root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The cup.
    2. The standard.
    3. One of the wings shown from the inside.
    4. The keel.
    5. The chives and pointal.
    6. The chives spread open.
    7. The seed-bud and pointal.


This handsome twining plant was introduced from the Cape of Good Hope to
the gardens of G. Hibbert, esq. about the year 1802, and flowered very
luxuriantly, but did not perfect any of its seeds nor make any approach
towards it, as the flowers with their empalements all fell off together
immediately after flowering; and for the last three or four years the
plant (although apparently in a healthy state) has not indicated the
least appearance of bloom; and we are inclined to think it might
possibly succeed better with the careful treatment of the dry stove than
with its present situation in the hot-house; and if upon experiment it
should prove successful, it would then doubtless become a plant in
request by many cultivators who whilst it remains a hot-house plant
cannot give it a place in their collection.

This genus approaches so near to that of Phaseolus, that we cannot help
thinking one generic title would have been sufficient for them both.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXLVII.

PROTEA ARGENTIFLORA.

_Silvery-flowered Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4 petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Sem. solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA argentiflora; floribus paniculatis, densissime
     confertissimis, parvis rotundatis capitatis, fragrantibus,
     nitidissimis; foliis bipinnatis, linearibus, apice acutis,
     erecto-patentibus.

     PROTEA with silvery flowers: the flowers grow in panicles, closely
     crowded together, in little round heads, sweet-scented and very
     shining: leaves twice divided, linear, sharp-pointed, and between
     erect and spreading.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. One of the scales.
    2. A blossom detached from the umbel.
    3. A section of it magnified.
    4. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.
    5. The cone with the scales attached.
    6. The same without the scales.
    7. The naked cone.


From the shining silvery appearance of this Protea we have drawn its
specific title, although aware of the insurmountable difficulty of doing
justice to it: but in so extended a genus it will be frequently
impossible to give a discriminating or unoccupied specific from its
foliage:--our title may always be ascertained when the plant is in
bloom, whether in perfection or not, as the flowers living or dead
always retain a shining silvery aspect. It also possesses a most
exquisite sweet scent; but its superior fragrance only exists whilst the
flowers are in perfection; as after that period it grows fainter, and is
at last scentless. Our figure was made from the collection of G.
Hibbert, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXLVIII.

PÆONIA SUFFRUTICOSA; _Var. flore purpureo_.

_Shrubby Pæony; Purple-flowered Variety._


CLASS XIII. ORDER V.

_POLYANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Many Chives. Five Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-phyllus. Petala 5. Styli 0. Capsulæ polyspermæ.

     CUP 5-leaved. Petals 5. Pointal none. Capsules many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PÆONIA caule suffruticoso, tripedali, ramoso: folia alternatim
     bipinnata, pedalia et ultra, bifida et trifida, subtus glauca:
     petiolis longis, canaliculatis, amplexicaulibus: floribus
     semi-duplicibus, purpureis, splendentibus.

     PÆONY with a shrubby stem, three feet high, and branching: leaves
     alternately two-winged, a foot or more in length, two-and
     three-cleft, glaucous beneath; the petioles are long, channelled,
     and embracing the stem: flowers semi-double, purple, and very
     splendid.


This elegant plant is the purple variety mentioned in our last Vol. Pl.
373. and flowered at the same time, with completely double flowers, and
so equal in point of beauty, that we hesitated some time before we could
determine to which we should give the preference. But had we seen the
purple one in its present semi-double state, it would undoubtedly have
claimed precedence, as well from its preserved botanic character, as its
superior beauty. The singular versatility of these plants we were
entirely unacquainted with when we figured the rose-coloured one; as,
since that period, we have seen them in bloom with single flowers, the
following year with double ones; and again the year after we found this
purple one in the semi-double state which our figure represents, the
plant then bearing five-and-twenty flowers in full perfection, forming a
coup-d’œil superior to any shrub we have ever seen.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXLIX.

LINUM TRIGYNUM.

_Three-styled Golden Flax._


CLASS V. ORDER V.

_PENTANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Five Chives. Five Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium pentaphyllum, lanceolatum, erectum, persistens.

     COROLLA. Petala infundibuliformia quinque, oblonga, superne sensim
     latiora, obtusa, patentia.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque subulata, erecta, longitudine calycis
     (rudimenta filorum insuper 5, alternantia). Antheræ simplices,
     sagittatæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Styli 5, filiformes, erecti, longitudine
     staminum. Stigmata simplicia, reflexa.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula globosa, pentagona, decemlocularis,
     quinquevalvis.

     SEMINA solitaria, ovato-planiuscula, acuminata, glabra.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup five-leaved, lance-shaped, upright, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM. Funnel-shaped petals five, oblong, widening upwards by
     degrees, obtuse, and spreading.

     CHIVES. Five filaments, awl-shaped, upright, the length of the
     calyx (there are five alternate slight rudiments of threads).
     Anthers simple, and arrow-shaped.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud ovate. Shafts 5, thread-shaped, and upright, the
     length of the stamens. Summits simple, and reflexed.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule globular, five-sided, ten-celled, five-valved.

     SEEDS solitary, of a flattish oval form, sharp-pointed, and smooth.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LINUM trigynum, foliis alternis, ovatis, glabris, apice acuminatis:
     floribus in ramis simpliciter terminalibus: corolla aurea, magna:
     ramulis alternis, numerosis, viridibus.

     FLAX with three pointals; leaves alternate, ovate, and smooth,
     pointed at the end: flowers terminate the branches singly: blossoms
     gold colour, and large: the smaller branches alternate, numerous,
     and green.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. One of the petals.
    3. Chives and pointals.
    4. A chive magnified.
    5. Seed-bud and pointals, a summit magnified.
    6. The seed-bud cut transversely, magnified.


This perfectly new Linum is by far the most showy of the genus, and
illumines all the gloomy months of winter with its fine large flowers,
whose brilliance is not often surpassed even in the height of summer,
when Flora reigns with undiminished lustre. It has been hitherto
regarded as a hot-house plant, but is now found to succeed much better
with the careful treatment of the green-house. It is published by Capt.
Hardwicke in his enumeration of the plants of Sireenagur in the Asiatic
Annual Register of 1800, and was found by that gentleman on the sides of
the mountains in fine bloom in the month of December, and from whom it
received the specific title of trigynum. Its provincial name is said to
be Gul Ashorfee; from Gul a flower and Ashorfee gold, a coin current in
India of the value of 2_l._ sterling. There is a figure of this Linum in
the Exotic Botany of Dr. Smith, copied from a drawing, and represented
with deeply serrated leaves; a character very different from any of the
living plants we have as yet seen in bloom, not one of them exhibiting
the slightest vestige of a serrature on their foliage. Our figure was
made from a plant in luxuriant bloom at the nursery of Messrs. Whitley
and Brames.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCL.

ALBUCA FASTIGIATA.

_Level-topped Albuca._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX nullus.

     COROLLA hexapetala; tribus interioribus conniventibus, exterioribus
     patulis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, apice inflexa, basi dilatata. Antheræ
     oblongæ, in medio affixæ. Stylus triqueter. Stigma triquetrum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, angulata, 3-locularis, 3-valvis.

     SEMINA numerosa, plana.

     OBS. In quibusdam speciebus tria stamina sterilia sunt.

     EMPALEMENT none.

     BLOSSOM. Six petals; the three inner ones conniving together, the
     outer ones spreading.

     CHIVES. Six threads turned inwards at the points, and widened at
     the base. Tips oblong, and fastened in the centre. Shaft
     three-sided. Summit three-cornered.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, angular, 3-celled, 3-valved.

     SEEDS many, flat.

     OBS. In some species three of the stamens are sterile.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ALBUCA foliis lanceolato-ensiformibus: floribus erectis,
     paniculatis, fastigiatis, pedunculis longissimis: corollis albis,
     in medio lineâ viridi: petalis interioribus apice fornicatis,
     stamina includentibus, quæ sunt omnia fertilia.

     ALBUCA with leaves between lance-and sword-shaped: flowers upright,
     and grow paniculated and level: footstalks very long: blossoms
     white, with a stripe of green in the centre; the inner petals
     forming an arch at the end, and enclosing the stamens, which are
     all fertile.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. One of the flower-props.
    2. The chives and pointal.
    3. One of the outer chives.
    4. One of the inner ones.
    5. Seed-bud and pointal.


This genus approaches so near to Ornithogalum, that they may easily be
mistaken for each other; the only visible distinction resting in the
unexpanding character of the three inner petals, or calyx; for opinions
vary with respect to their denomination--Jussieu, an able botanist
(through all the divisions of this family), regarding that as the
empalement which we, following Linnæus, describe as petals. In the
Species Plantarum of Willdenow we find our plant enumerated under the
specific title of fastigiata, with a technical description annexed to
it. From a plant in the garden of G. Hibbert, esq. about three years
ago, we made a drawing of this Albuca, but are inclined to think it
rather scarce, not having seen it since that period.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLI.

DIOSMA ERICÆFOLIA.

_Heath-leaved Diosma._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 5-petala. Nectaria 5 supra germen. Caps. 3. s. 5, coalitæ.
     Semina tecta.

     BLOSSOM. Five petals. Five nectaries above the seed-bud.
     Seed-vessels 3 or 5, joined together. Seeds covered.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     DIOSMA foliis alternis, linearibus, acutis, notatis: floribus in
     umbellis paniculatis, parvis, albis.

     DIOSMA with alternate leaves, linear, sharp-pointed, and marked.
     Flowers grow in paniculated umbels, small, and white.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A leaf magnified.
    2. The empalement magnified.
    3. Seed-buds, honey-cups, chives, and pointal.
    4. A chive magnified.
    5. The honey-cups magnified.
    6. Seed-buds and pointal, magnified.


This new species of Diosma so nearly resembles the genus Erica in its
foliage, that, regarding it as an unequivocally good specific reference,
we have adopted it. The only place in which we have as yet seen it was
at the Cape nursery last December, where we observed several plants in
fine bloom; and although not showy, they are certainly estimable from
their neat and delicate appearance, particularly at a season when so
many of the beauties of vegetation are in a state of quiescence. Upon
comparing our figure with a fine dried specimen of the D. hirsuta in the
herbarium of A. B. Lambert, esq., we find so powerful a resemblance as
induces us to regard our plant as only a variation of culture, more
especially as in the magnifier slight vestiges of the hairs on the edges
of the leaves are still discernible. But no fear need be entertained of
any mode of culture rendering our present specific term impervious to
the naked eye. There is a dotted or punctured character which pervades
the under surface of the foliage of most Diosmas, many of which, when
rubbed, emit a powerful odour. The present subject, although deficient
in both those respects, still possesses a peculiarity that we have
thought deserving a magnified place in the dissections. It is a hardy
green-house plant, and a native of the Cape of Good Hope.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLII.

ACHANIA MOLLIS.

_Soft-haired-leaved Achania._


CLASS XVI. ORDER VI.

_MONADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads united. Many Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX duplex. Interior monophyllus, semi-striatus,
     sub-cylindraceus, quinquefidus, persistens. Exterior octophyllus,
     basi leviter coalitus.

     COROLLA sub-clavata, convoluta. Petala quinque, basi uno latere
     alternatim auriculata, lobis columnam staminum convolventibus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta plurima, ad basin in tubum corolla longiorem
     torta, in partem superiorem tubi coalita, cujus apex liberatus est.

     PISTILLUM. Germen sub-globosum. Stylus filiformis. Stigma
     decemfidum.

     PERICARPIUM. Bacca sub-globosa, quinque-locularis.

     SEMINA solitaria.

     EMPALEMENT double. The inner one-leafed, half-striped, nearly
     cylindrical, five-cleft, and remaining. The outer eight-leaved, and
     slightly attached at the base.

     BLOSSOM nearly club-shaped, and folded together. Petals five,
     alternately eared on one side of the base, the lobes of which are
     rolled round the columnar shaft of the stamens.

     CHIVES. Threads numerous, united at the base into a tube longer
     than the blossom, twisted, and united near the upper part of the
     tube, the point of which is liberated.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly round. Shaft thread-shaped. Summit
     ten-cleft.

     SEED-VESSEL. A berry nearly round, with five cells.

     SEEDS solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ACHANIA foliis tomentosis, cordatis, trilobatis, dentatis. Calyx
     exterior revolutus, pubescens. Flores solitarii, axillares. Corolla
     sub-clavata. Petala convoluta, sub-inclusa, læte coccinea, nervosa,
     tomentosa. Caulis fruticosus, villosus, sub-tripedalis.

     ACHANIA with downy leaves, heart-shaped, three-lobed, and toothed.
     The outer cup is revolute, and hairy. Flowers grow solitary from
     the axillæ of the leaves. Blossom nearly club-shaped. The petals
     are folded together and nearly closed, of a bright scarlet colour,
     nerved, and downy. Stem shrubby, hairy, and near three feet high.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. A petal detached, shown from the outside.
    4. The chives spread open.
    5. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


This handsome hot-house plant is certainly an old one, having been a
sojourner with us near thirty years, but has not as yet been figured in
any publication that we know of:--a neglect most probably resulting from
the singularity of its unclosing flowers; so uncommon a character
naturally conveying an idea that the plant was in an imperfect state.
Under this prejudice it has lost the charm of novelty, and many a less
attractive object has been preferred before it. This genus approaches so
close to the genera of Hibiscus, Althea, Malva, &c. that it must
certainly be considered as a very near relation to that family. Its
foliage is frequently deciduous on the lower part of the stem; a defect
to which stove plants in general are but too subject. It is a native of
South America and the West India Islands, was found by Dr. Houston in
Jamaica in 1731, and introduced by B. Bewick, esq. in 1780. It flowers
from July till the end of the year.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLIII.

PROTEA REPENS.

_Creeping Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Sem. solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA repens, foliis sub-amplexicaulibus, cordatis, undulatis,
     apice reflexis, acutis, marginibus rubris: floribus sub basin:
     interius squamarum calycis læte carneum, exterius fusco-purpureum,
     villosum.

     PROTEA with a creeping stem, and leaves nearly surrounding it,
     which are heart-shaped, waved, bent back at the end, sharp-pointed,
     and red at the edges: flowers grow towards the base of the plant:
     the inside of the scales of the empalement are of a bright flesh
     colour, and the outside of a purply brown, and hairy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The blossom complete, and one of the chives magnified.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


The appearance of this Protea, as cultivated in the gardens, is
diametrically opposite to its natural character, which, as its specific
indicates, is repent or creeping; instead of which, the branches of the
plant are bent from their natural habit, forced as upright as possible,
and fastened to a stick; in which situation the flowers only would
compare with our figure. But so averse is it to this confined mode of
treatment, that, as soon as the branches are liberated, they instantly
take the direction most natural to them, and which is certainly the most
graceful. Although repens is the more general title of this Protea, yet
we have heard it sometimes called amplexicaulis, a name given by some
cultivators to a plant whose foliage is so nearly resembling the one now
figured, that, when it arrives at a flowering state, it will most
probably prove to be no more than a variation of culture. It is a
difficult matter to say in what stage the flower is most beautiful,
whether in the bud state, before the pointals are released, or
afterwards. From their long confinement, the pollen adheres so strongly
to them, that when relieved they appear like the antheræ. Our drawing
was made at the Hibbertian collection from a plant in fine bloom in the
month of February.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLIV.

URTICA BACCIFERA.

_Berry-bearing Nettle._


CLASS XXI. ORDER IV.

_MONŒCIA TETRANDRIA._ Chives and Pointals separate. Four Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

* _Masculi flores._

     CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum.

     COROLLA nulla. _Nectarium_ in centro floris cyathiforme.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, subulata, longitudine calycis.

* _Feminei flores vel in eadem vel distincta planta._

     CALYX. Perianthium bivalve, persistens.

     COROLLA nulla.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus nullus. Stigma villosum.

     PERICARPIUM nullum.

     SEMEN unicum.

* _Male flowers._

     EMPALEMENT four-leaved.

     BLOSSOM none. _Honey-cup_ is formed in the centre of the flower,
     like a small cup.

     CHIVES. Filaments four, awl-shaped, and the length of the cup.

* _Female flowers in the same, or in separate plants._

     EMPALEMENT. Cup two-valved, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM none.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud ovate. Shaft none. Summit hairy.

     SEED-VESSEL none.

     SEED one.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     URTICA baccifera, foliis alternis, cordatis, dentatis, aculeis
     tectis: calyces fœminei, baccati, alternatim in ramos longos
     divaricatos positi, dependentes, læte rubri, et aculeis tecti:
     caulis aculeis magnis tectus.

     BERRY-BEARING NETTLE with leaves alternate, heart-shaped, toothed,
     and covered with prickles: empalement female, having berries, and
     alternately situated upon long straggling branches, hanging down,
     of a bright red colour, and covered with prickles: stem covered
     with large prickles.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower magnified.
    2. The same with the summit detached, magnified.


This plant is most completely armed in all directions, and known by the
appellation of the Horrid Nettle. The fierceness of its exterior evinces
grandeur, and the bright red flower-stems combine some share of beauty:
and notwithstanding its ferocious aspect, the Common Wild Hedge Nettle
suffers a light approach with less impunity than this terrific plant;
thus proving the old axiom of an open enemy, however powerful, being
less injurious than a pretended friend, whose insidious character, like
the Hedge Nettle, unheeded stings. In the Hortus Schœnbrunnensis of
Jacquin it is described and figured, and also in the Icones of Plumier,
p. 259, tab. 260, who gives it the additional specific of arborescens:
and there is but little doubt of its forming a tree-like appearance in
the Antilles and Blue Mountain Valley of Jamaica, where it is
indigenous. The figure represents the upper part of a large specimen,
communicated by A. B. Lambert, esq. with whom it flowered in the summer
of 1804.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLV.

POLYGALA MIXTA.

_Mixt Polygala._


CLASS XVII. ORDER III.

_DIADELPHIA OCTANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Eight Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-phyllus: foliolis duobus alæformibus, coloratis: legumen
     obcordatum, biloculare.

     Cup 5-leaved, with two of the leaves like wings, coloured: pod
     inverse heart-shaped, two-celled.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     POLYGALA floribus imberbibus, axillaribus, purpureis: foliis
     fasciculatis, 5-6 in singulo fasciculo, linearibus, acutis, valde
     confertis inter flores: caule suffruticoso: ramulis filiformibus,
     patentibus.

     POLYGALA with beardless flowers, growing from the axillæ of the
     leaves, and of a purple colour: the leaves grow in fascicles, 5 and
     6 in each fascicle, linear, sharp-pointed, and very much crowded
     amongst the flowers: stem shrubbyish: branches thread-shaped, and
     spreading.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement magnified.
    2. The keel magnified.
    3. One of the wings magnified.
    4. The chives magnified.
    5. The pointal magnified.
    6. Flower of a white variety.


Amongst the numerous introductions of novelty to the gardens of G.
Hibbert, esq. the Hesteria section of the genus Polygala (although not
splendid) are all of them particularly desirable, from their lively,
long, and (of this species) we may say continual bloom; it having been
seen in flower throughout the whole year. There is a variety of it with
white flowers of equal durability, and so perfect a fac-simile in every
other particular, that a separate figure will by no means be requisite,
especially as in the winter season the purple flowers are sometimes
almost bleached by the cold, and the distinction in consequence less
apparent. It is well known by the cultivators under the appellation of
_mixta_; a specific given to it from the promiscuous manner in which the
flowers and leaves are profusely mixt together.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLVI.

LACHENALIA FLAVA.

_Yellow-flowered Lachenalia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, infera; petalis 3 interioribus longioribus:
     stamina erecta: capsula sub-ovata, trialata: semina globosa.

     BLOSSOM 6-petalled beneath; the three inner petals the longest:
     chives erect: capsule nearly egg-shaped, three-winged: seeds
     globular.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LACHENALIA foliis geminis, lanceolatis: scapo erecto, colore
     cinereo-cæruleo in modum marmoris variato: corollis flavis,
     sub-pendulis, sub-cylindraceis, cum limbo petalorum interiorum
     permagno et expanso: tria petala exteriora angusta, et apice
     virescentia.

     LACHENALIA with leaves in pairs, and lance-shaped: flower-stem
     upright, and of a slaty-colour obscurely marbled: blossoms yellow,
     nearly hanging down, somewhat cylindrical, with the border of the
     inner petals very large and spreading: the three outer petals are
     narrow, and greenish at the point.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower spread open.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.
    3. The seed-bud cut transversely, magnified.


This Lachenalia may be regarded as a perfectly new species, there not
being a figure of it extant, nor is it enumerated in the Species
Plantarum of Willdenow. We were at first inclined to have called it
ringens, from the wide-gaping character of the mouth of the flower: but
as so many of this genus have received a specific title in reference to
their colour, the appellation of flava in the present instance will
doubtless be generally as well accepted. The figure was made, from the
only plant that has as yet flowered in this country, at the nursery of
Mr. Williams of Turnham Green, who informs me that he has had the plant
three or four years, but has found it difficult to flower, and slow of
increase.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLVII.

BANKSIA SPINULOSA.

_Thorny-leaved Banksia._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     RECEPTACULUM commune elongatum, squamosum: corolla tetrapetala:
     stamina limbo inserta: capsula bivalvis, disperma, dissepimento
     mobili interjecto: semina alata.

     COMMON receptacle elongated, scaly: blossom of four petals: chives
     inserted into the limb of the blossom: capsule with two valves, two
     seeds, and a moveable partition between them: seeds winged.

     See Banksia serrata, Pl. LXXXII. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     BANKSIA foliis linearibus, longis, margine revolutis, sub-apices
     spinulosis: ramis patentibus, ad basin foliis sparsis, superne
     fasciculatis.

     BANKSIA with long linear leaves, rolled back at the edges, and
     towards the ends furnished with little thorns: branches spreading,
     thin of leaves at the base, which are bundled together on the upper
     part of the branches.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower.
    2. A blossom spread open, one chive magnified.
    3. The pointal, summit magnified.


The flowers of this Banksia bear a considerable degree of affinity to
the B. ericæfolia already figured in Pl. 156, but very distinct in the
foliage. From the small thorns on the upper part of the leaves it has
acquired the specific title of spinulosa. It is not very often seen in
bloom, although an old plant; which is accounted for in the slowness of
its growth, and the size it generally attains to before it becomes a
flowering plant: and as this character is prevalent through the whole
genus, it no doubt prevents them from being so generally cultivated as
they would otherwise be; since, when in flower, they are certainly both
curious and beautiful. Our figure was taken from a plant in the
collection of His Grace the Duke of Northumberland, at Sion-House near
Brentford; where, under the care of Mr. Hoy, several fine species of
this genus are in very great perfection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLVIII.

EUGENIA MALACCENSIS.

_Malay Apple Tree._


CLASS XII. ORDER I.

_ICOSANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, superum; in medio orbiculus, supra
     quem quadripartitum est: laciniis concavis, persistentibus.

     COROLLA. Petala quatuor, calyce duplo majora, obtusa, concava.

     STAMINA. Filamenta plurima in orbiculo calyci inserta, longitudine
     corollæ: antheræ parvæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, inferum. Stylus simplex, longitudine
     staminum. Stigma simplex.

     PERICARPIUM. Drupa quadrangularis, coronata, unilocularis.

     SEMINA. Nux subrotunda, glabra.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup of one leaf, above: in the middle is a little
     circle, above which it is four-divided: the segments are hollow,
     and remaining.

     BLOSSOM. Petals four, twice the size of the calyx, obtuse, and
     hollow.

     CHIVES. Threads many in a little circle inserted into the calyx:
     tips small.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud top-shaped, beneath. Shaft simple, the length of
     the stamens. Summit simple.

     SEED-VESSEL. A berry four-angled, coronet-shaped, and one-celled.

     SEED. A nut nearly round, and smooth.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     EUGENIA foliis oppositis, alternis, latis, ovalibus, apice acuto,
     leviter torto, glabris, lucidis. Caulis erectus. Ramuli superiores
     dumosi, cortice rugoso, colore pulliginoso: ramis floriferis
     oppositis, alternis, rectis: corollis alternatim oppositis,
     purpureis.

     EUGENIA with opposite alternate leaves, broad, and of an oval form,
     with an acute point, slightly twisted, smooth, and shining. Stem
     upright. The branches above are bushy. The bark is wrinkled, and of
     a light brown colour. The flower-branches are opposite, alternate,
     and straight out. The blossoms are alternately opposite, and
     purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A petal.
    2. A chive, one tip magnified.
    3. The empalement and pointal.
    4. A half-ripe fruit.


The figure of this Eugenia was made from the finest plant in this
country in the hot-house of G. Hibbert, esq. where we were in hopes it
would have perfected its fruit; but were disappointed, as in a very
forward state towards ripening it fell off. But, as far as it was
advanced, we have represented it, as in this climate it might probably
never arrive at greater maturity, unless a larger house were constructed
for it: otherwise the degree of heat necessary to preserve the smaller
tropical plants would always be subject to injure those of a large size,
from the natural extension of their roots approaching too near the
flues. But although so much care is required for it in this clime, in
the warmer regions of Macassar, Amboyna, and the Moluccas, where it is
indigenous, not the least attention is necessary; for, such is the
extreme indolence of the natives, that it is imagined, if any care had
been requisite for its preservation, it would soon have been lost for
want of it. In the Hortus Malabaricus of Rheede there is an uncoloured
figure of it, with descriptions, in which it is said to be a fruit-tree
of great general utility to the country from its extreme abundance,
grateful taste, and salubrious quality, flowering twice in the year. The
fruit in an unripe state is of a bitterish and rather astringent
character; but, when ripe, of a fine flavour, exceedingly wholesome, and
beneficial as an allayer of inflammation in feverish habits. The flowers
are by the Dutch at Amboyna preserved, and frequently eaten by way of
salad. It is said to form a tall umbrageous tree, and when in fine bloom
must certainly be an object of great beauty.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLIX.

LASIOPETALUM QUERCIFOLIUM.

_Oak-leaved Lasiopetalum._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX triphyllum, tomentosum, persistens. Corolla monopetala,
     lanuginosa, 5-fida. Filamenta 5, germinis basi affixa. Germen
     superum. Capsula 3-locularis, 3-valvis.

     EMPALEMENT 3-leaved, downy, and remaining. Blossom one-leafed,
     woolly, and five-cleft. Threads 5, fixed to the base of the
     seed-bud. Seed-bud above. Capsule 3-celled, 3-valved.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LASIOPETALUM quercifolium, ternatum: foliis duobus ad basin
     minoribus; supra viridibus, subtus nervosis, ferrugineis, stellatim
     setis tectis: racemis floriferis longis, foliis oppositis: corollis
     purpureis. Rami et ramuli, pedunculi, &c. setis stellatim tecti,
     ferruginei. Caulis humilis.

     WOOLLY flower with oak-shaped leaves, by threes; two at the base
     are smallest; green on their upper surface, veined beneath, of a
     rusty iron colour, and beset with hairy star-like specks.
     Flower-branches long, and opposite to the leaves. Blossoms purple.
     The small and larger branches, footstalks, &c. are beset with
     star-like specks, and of a rusty colour. Stem low.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. Seed-bud, chives, and pointal.
    3. A chive magnified.
    4. The same shown from the outer side.
    5. Seed-bud and pointal.


Throughout almost all the plants as yet introduced from New South Wales,
there is a strong marked leading feature that proclaims them of Botany
Bay extraction, either in the upright strictness of their habit, a hard
harsh character in the foliage, or a rough and rusty exterior. Of the
last description is our present figure; but it is nevertheless a very
handsome plant, and the only addition (to this otherwise solitary genus)
as yet in cultivation with us. Labillardiere, in his Description of New
South Wales, has given a figure of a plant under the title of
Lasiopetalum triphyllum, very much resembling our quercifolium--probably
a variety of it--or, if intended to represent the same plant, there must
be a considerable inaccuracy in the delineation. Our figure was taken
from a plant at the nursery of Messrs. Colville.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLX.

LACHENALIA SESSILIFLORA.

_Sessile-flowered Lachenalia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, infera; petalis 3 interioribus longioribus:
     stamina erecta: capsula sub-ovata, trialata: semina globosa.

     BLOSSOM 6-petaled beneath; the three inner petals the longest:
     chives erect: capsule nearly egg-shaped, three-winged: seeds
     globular.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LACHENALIA sessiliflora: foliis geminis, lanceolatis: scapo erecto,
     semi-pedali: floribus prope apices confertis, purpureis: petalis
     exterioribus cuneatis: interioribus duplo longioribus, angustis,
     truncatis.

     LACHENALIA with sessile flowers: leaves by pairs: stem upright,
     half a foot high: flowers grow crowded together near the top, and
     are of a purple colour: the outer petals are wedge-shaped: the
     inner ones twice the length, narrow, and appearing cut off at the
     end.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower spread open.
    2. The inside of the same.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


This Lachenalia is perfectly new, an attraction that may counterbalance
its want of speciosity. From the total absence of footstalks to the
flowers we have derived its unoccupied specific title. Professor Jacquin
has figured many handsome species of this genus not yet introduced to
this country, and amongst the number two equally sessile with our plant,
but in no other particular resembling it. From a drawing made for the
collection of G. Hibbert, esq. in 1803 our figure was taken; since which
period we have not seen any vestige of the plant, and therefore imagine
that, like many other Cape bulbs, it is lost to us for the present: but
it probably may soon reappear amongst the frequent importations we are
in the constant habit of receiving from that inexhaustible botanic
mine.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXI.

PROTEA TERETIFOLIA.

_Cylindric-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Sem. solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA teretifolia, foliis obtusis: junioribus adscendentibus,
     senioribus patentibus: floribus luteis, capitatis, terminalibus,
     foliis circumsessis: post florescentiam conus formatur.

     PROTEA with cylindrical leaves blunt-ended: the younger ascending,
     and the older ones spreading: flowers yellow, headed, terminal, and
     surrounded by the leaves: and after flowering a cone is formed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower.
    2. A chive magnified.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.
    4. Flower-branch of a small variety.


This little Protea is more desirable, by way of contrast to those
splendid imbricated species, than for any beauty it possesses, and
exhibits powerfully the great diversity of character annexed to this
numerous genus. Attached to the dissections is part of the branch of a
minor variety, and which is by some considered as specifically distinct:
and were extension our object, it certainly might be made a separate
species, from the difference of its character after flowering, the
larger one forming a cone the size of an egg; which the lesser one does
not. It also differs in the manner of its growth; but only in the dried
specimens which we have seen that have been collected from old plants at
the Cape; and in them the small variety forms its branches after the
manner of a corymbus, and the plant has thence received the appellation
of corymbosa. But had we given a separate figure of it, we could not
(without making an awkward apology) have adopted a specific title whose
characteristic appearance it might never acquire in this climate, and
which our figure would not have possessed. By placing it amongst the
variations these objections are obviated, and the appearance of
repetition avoided: a desirable object in a genus so extended as Protea;
and we shall take every opportunity of abbreviating as much as possible
the number of slight varieties, particularly when their attractions are
not considerable. Our drawing was made from plants in the Hibbertian
collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXII.

MALUS JAPONICA.

_Scarlet-flowering Japan Apple._


CLASS XII. ORDER V.

_ICOSANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. Five Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, concavum, quinquefidum, persistens.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, subrotunda, concava.

     STAMINA. Filamenta viginti, subulata, corollâ breviora, calyci
     inserta. Antheræ simplices.

     PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Styli 5. Filum longitudine staminum.
     Stigmata simplicia.

     PERICARPIUM. Pomum subrotundum, umbilicatum, carnosum,
     membranaceum: loculis quinquelocularibus.

     SEMINA. Nonnulla oblonga, obtusa, basi acuminata, hinc convexa,
     inde plana.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, hollow, five-parted, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM. Five petals, nearly round, and hollow.

     CHIVES. Twenty, awl-shaped, and shorter than the blossom, and
     inserted into the cup. Tips simple.

     POINTALS. Seed-bud beneath. Shafts 5. Thread the length of the
     stamens. Summit simple.

     SEED-VESSEL. An apple nearly round, navelled, fleshy, skinny:
     partitions five loculaments.

     SEEDS. Some oblong, obtuse, pointed at the base, convex on the
     side, and then flat.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MALUS japonica, foliis alternis, lanceolatis et spathulatis,
     glabris, et lucidis: marginibus serrulatis, suffruticibus, et
     interdum arborescentibus. Rami et ramuli alterni, recti, ad basin
     nodosi, colore schisti: floribus fasciculatis, plerumque quaternis,
     læte coccineis: petalis concavis, quinque vel decem. Floret in
     Martio et Aprili.

     JAPAN Apple, with alternate leaves lance-and spathula-shaped,
     smooth, and shining: with finely sawed margins, shrubbyish, and
     sometimes growing to a tree. The small and large branches are
     alternate and straight out, knotty at the base, and of a slaty
     colour. Flowers grow in bunches mostly of four together, of a
     bright scarlet colour. The petals are concave, and from five to ten
     in number. Flowers in March and April.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A petal.
    2. The empalement, chives, and pointals.
    3. The same spread open, one tip magnified.
    4. Seed-bud and pointals, summit magnified.


This handsome fruit-tree will doubtless soon become an object of general
cultivation in this country, from the brilliance and duration of its
fine scarlet blossoms. It is perfectly hardy, but flowers with most
freedom in the shelter of the green-house. The fruit is about the size
and shape of a walnut. Why or wherefore Pyrus is the generic title
adopted for Apple we were at first at a loss to conjecture, but upon
investigation find it built on the egotism too inseparable from human
nature, and must confess ourselves very sorry to be under the necessity
of placing the defect to its original source; the celebrated Linnæus,
who it appears altered it from Malus (the genus of Tournefort) to Pyrus,
for no other reason but that his own system (unquestionably the best in
almost every other particular) might not bear any resemblance to that of
Tournefort. Jussieu in the Introduction to his Genera Plantarum,
commenting on this very subject, concludes with this most excellent
remark: “Such is the love of undivided praise!” We have therefore
returned the genus back to its old standard, not through any desire to
alter, but absolute necessity; regarding the absurdity of its nomination
under the generic title of Pyrus as already too long retained; for
whilst the tree is known by its fruit, that fruit should certainly be
called by its name.

For the introduction of this fine plant we are indebted to the Hon. C.
Greville, in whose conservatory at Paddington it first flowered, and
from whence our figure was taken.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXIII.

PÆONIA PAPAVERACEA.

_Poppy-like Pæony._


CLASS XIII. ORDER VI.

_POLYANDRIA HEXAGYNIA._ Many Chives. Six Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-phyllus. Petala 5. Styli 0. Capsulæ polyspermæ.

     CUP 5-leaved. Petals 5. Pointal none. Capsules many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PÆONIA caule suffruticoso ramoso: folia alternatim bipinnata,
     subtus glauca: petiolis longis, canaliculatis, amplexicaulibus:
     floribus semi-duplicibus, albis, ad basin eleganter purpureo
     radiatis: capsula orbiculata, continens sex loculamenta, in quibus
     singulis sunt duo semina.

     PÆONY with a shrubby stem branching beneath: leaves alternately
     two-winged, and glaucous beneath, with long footstalks, channelled,
     and embracing the stem. Flowers semi-double, white, but elegantly
     radiated at the base with a purple colour: capsule orbicular,
     containing six cells, with two seeds in each.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The seed-vessel.
    2. The same cut transversely.


For this beautiful species of Pæonia we are indebted to Lady Hume, in
whose select collection at Wormley-bury, Herts, it flowered for the
first time in this country. When we figured the fine purple variety, we
little thought of having so soon to compare it with a rival of such
magnitude, and of equal beauty. The bright radiated purple at the base
is a great relief to the surrounding whiteness of the petals, that would
otherwise stand in much greater need of the assistance of art for a
strength of shadow, that would unavoidably injure their delicacy. The
more we become acquainted with this attractive genus, the greater
latitude of growth we find attached to it, which appears to defy all
systematic rule, varying in some species from Digynia, or two pointals,
up to six or more. The present one differs more than all the rest,
having six pointals and seed-buds attached together, and enshrined
within a globular exterior, resembling a Poppy, and from whence we have
drawn its specific title; for, as a distinct species it may certainly be
considered with great propriety; and most likely the distinction will by
some be thought of sufficient consequence to license a generic division:
but in a genus so mutable, were the alteration still greater, whilst it
could be recognised as a Pæony, we should regret to meet it under any
other title.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXIV.

DIOSMA OVATA.

_Oval-leaved Diosma._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 5-petala. Nectaria 5 supra germen. Caps. 3. s. 5, coalitæ.
     Semina tecta.

     BLOSSOM. Five petals. Five nectaries above the seed-bud.
     Seed-vessels 3 or 5, joined together. Seeds covered.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     DIOSMA ovata, foliis alternis, oppositis, odoris, supra glabris,
     infra punctatis, patentibus: floribus plerumque duobus,
     axillaribus, in medio ramulorum, albis. Caulis erectus: ramis
     simplicibus.

     DIOSMA with oval leaves, alternate, opposite, and full of scent,
     smooth above, dotted beneath, and spreading. Flowers grow mostly
     two together from the axillæ of the leaves, about the middle of the
     branches, and are white. Stem upright. Branches simple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. Seed-buds, honey-cups, chives, and pointal.
    3. A petal.
    4. A chive magnified.
    5. Seed-bud and pointal.


Among the scented foliage characteristic of so many of the Diosmas the
present species is by far the most powerful, and is the plant called
Buku, so much used by the Hottentots, at the Cape of Good Hope, by way
of perfume. They mix it with grease, and anoint themselves with it so
profusely that a stranger can scarcely endure the effluvia of it. The D.
serrata also possesses a similar scent, and is most likely used
occasionally for the same purpose by the natives. Its scent, when
rubbed, remains a long time, and by some is thought very pleasant, by
others as disagreeable: a difference of opinion in general attending all
very strong perfumes. The foliage has a very neat appearance, and the
clear white flowers give it a lively aspect. Like several others of the
genus, it blooms in winter and spring. Our figure was made from the
Clapham collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXV.

PROTEA DIVARICATA.

_Straddling-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Sem. solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA divaricata, foliis multifidis, longis, linearibus,
     teretibus, patentibus: floribus glomeratis, luteis.

     PROTEA with straddling leaves, many-cleft, long, linear, round, and
     spreading. Flowers grow in close round heads of a yellow colour.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower.
    2. A chive magnified.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.


This very distinct species of Protea we have not seen in any other
collection than that of G. Hibbert, esq. nor is it as yet amongst the
numerous fine dried specimens in the herbarium of A. B. Lambert, esq.
and certainly may be considered at present as a rare plant. From the
firm luxuriance of the foliage, and woody character of its stem, we
should be inclined to regard it as a plant not difficult to preserve;
and considering the abundance of its leaves, the flowers are
comparatively few: and very likely this circumstance may best account
for its present scarcity; for, amongst the various beauties of this
extensive tribe, numerous flowers, or speciosity of appearance, are the
best recommendations to particular attention.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXVI.

GOODENIA TENELLA.

_Slender Goodenia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 5-fida, supra longitudinaliter fissa, genitalia exserens.
     Stigma urceolatum, ciliatum.

     BLOSSOM five-cleft, longitudinally cloven on the upper side,
     exposing the organs of generation. Summit cup-shaped, and fringed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     GOODENIA tenella, foliis prostratis, spathulatis, margine leviter
     pilosis. Flores plures, germinantes a duabus bracteis oppositis;
     corollis luteis: petalis duobus superioribus maculatis. Rami
     graciles, longi, emergentes a radice, terram comprimunt, et postea
     adscendunt.

     GOODENIA with slender stems, prostrate leaves which are
     spathula-shaped, with lightly haired margins. Flowers numerous,
     branching out from two opposite floral leaves. Blossoms yellow: the
     two upper petals are spotted. Branches slender, long, and emerging
     from the root, press the earth, and afterward ascend.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud, chives, and pointal, magnified.


This delicate new Goodenia represents the entire plant, as communicated
to the author by the Comtesse de Vandes, in whose choice collection near
Bayswater it flowered for the first time. It is certainly one of the
most graceful plants hitherto introduced from New South Wales. Its
general exterior approaches very near a generic division of Goodenia
called Velleia, and is by Labillardiere figured under the title Velleia
trinervis. The abundance and succession of its bright yellow blossom,
joined to its light an airy appearance, will no doubt insure it a place
in most collections.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXVII.

LYTHRUM FRUTICOSUM.

_Shrubby Lythrum._


CLASS XII. ORDER I.

_DODECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Twelve Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, cylindraceum: denticulis duodecim,
     alternis minoribus.

     COROLLA. Petala sex, oblonga, obtusiuscula, patentia: unguibus in
     incisuras calycis insertis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta 12, longitudine calycis, supra: infra breviora.
     Antheræ simplices, incumbentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum. Stylus subulatus, longitudine staminum,
     declinatus. Stigma orbiculatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, acuminata, loculamentis duobus tecta.

     SEMINA numerosa, parva.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaved, cylindrical, twelve-toothed: the
     alternate ones the smallest.

     BLOSSOM. Petals six, oblong, bluntish, and spreading: the ungues or
     claws are inserted into the divisions of the calyx.

     CHIVES 12 filaments the length of the calyx, above, shorter
     beneath. Tips simple, and lying on them.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong. Shaft awl-shaped, the length of the
     stamens, bent downward. Summit orbicular.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, sharp-pointed, covered with two
     loculaments.

     SEEDS numerous, and small.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LYTHRUM fruticosum: foliis oppositis, alternis, lanceolatis. Flores
     in racemis axillaribus in numeris irregularibus: corollis
     tubæformibus, coccineis. Sponte nascens in provinciis borealibus
     Hindostani.

     LYTHRUM with a shrubby stem. Leaves opposite, alternate, and
     lance-shaped. Flowers grow in clusters from the axillæ of the
     leaves in irregular numbers. Blossoms trumpet-shaped, of a scarlet
     colour. It grows wild in the northern provinces of Hindostan.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A blossom spread open, one tip magnified.
    2. The same shown from the outer side.
    3. The seed-bud and pointal.
    4. A capsule.
    5. The same cut transverse.


This plant seems to have been hitherto but imperfectly known, having
been figured among Dr. Roxburgh’s Coromandel Plants, vol. i. p. 20,
under the title of Grislea tomentosa. It has recently received another
new generic title; but upon examination we find it to be the Lythrum of
Linnæus; in which opinion the author is sanctioned by the concurrence of
some of the ablest botanists of the present day. This handsome shrub is
described in the 4th vol. of the Asiatic Researches, under the native
title of D.hawry, and is said to grow wild on the hills and banks of
rivulets in the northern part of Hindostan, where it is as much esteemed
for its utility as its beautiful red flowers, which are gathered both
for the use of dyers and apothecaries; the latter giving an infusion of
them as a cooling medicine. When used in dyeing, they lose their colour,
and only yield a slight brownish tincture to the water; so that the
benefit derived from them when used with [A]Aal seems to depend solely
on their action as an astringent, and which appears to be confirmed by
the substituting of [B]Purwas, a strong astringent, as an equivalent for
the flowers of the D.hawry. It is at present treated as a hot-house
plant, but would in all probability succeed very well in the careful
treatment of the green-house. The figure was taken from a fine plant in
the nursery of Messrs. Colville.

[A] Aal, the native name of the Morinda plant, a tree of a middling
size cultivated to a great extent for the purpose of dyeing cloth red,
and is more esteemed for its duration than its beauty, and forms an
important branch in the commerce of the province of Mâlava.

[B] Purwas, a kind of gall nut containing the exuviæ of a small insect
found on a species of Mimosa.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXVIII.

ALOE ARBORESCENS.

_Tree Aloe._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX nullus.

     COROLLA. Monopetala, erecta, sexfida, oblonga. Tubus gibbus. Limbi
     patuli, parvi, fundo nectarifero.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, subulata, longitudine corollæ, fere ultra,
     receptaculo inserta. Antheræ oblongæ, incumbentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus simplex, longitudine staminum.
     Stigma obtusum, trifidum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, trisulca, trilocularis, trivalvis.

     SEMINA plura, angulata.

     OBS. A. variegata sola habet stigma et stamina declinata.

     EMPALEMENT none.

     BLOSSOM. One petal, upright, six-cleft, oblong. Tube gouty. Limbs
     spreading and small, with honey at their base.

     CHIVES. Threads six, awl-shaped, the length of the blossom, and
     scarcely above it, inserted into the receptacle. Anthers oblong,
     and incumbent.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud ovate. Shaft simple, the length of the stamens.
     Summit obtuse, and three-sided.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, 3-furrowed, 3-celled, 3-valved.

     SEEDS many and angular.

     OBS. A. variegata simply has the pointal and stamens bent
     downwards.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ALOE arborescens: floribus spicatis rubescentibus, apice viridibus:
     foliis porrectis, lanceolatis, carneis, apice recurvatis,
     marginibus serratis: caule ad basin nudo, superne foliis
     circumsesso.

     ALOE with a tree-like stem. Flowers grow in spikes of a soft red
     colour, green at the ends. Leaves straight out, lance-shaped,
     fleshy, and recurved, with sawed margins. Stem naked at the base,
     surrounded by the leaves on the upper part.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A leaf.
    2. A flower spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.
    4. Miniature representation of the plant.


This fine tall plant has been but rarely seen in bloom near town. The
specimen from which our figure was made, was sent to London by the Rev.
George Reading Leathes, from his collection at Bury St. Edmund’s, to his
friend sir T. G. Cullum, bart. and obligingly communicated to us by that
gentleman. It grows twelve feet high, and is considered as one of the
loftiest of the Aloe tribe (the dichotoma and ferox excepted), the
former of which is said to arrive sometimes to the enormous height of
twelve feet in circumference round the stem, twenty feet high, and four
hundred round the extremity of the branches. Colonel Paterson, in his
Travels in Africa, mentions, that after crossing the Cousie or Sand
River he visited a European and his family, who with their cattle had no
other tenement but what nature had furnished them with in the Aloe
dichotoma.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXIX.

PROTEA CORONATA.

_Crown-flowered Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Sem. solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis lanceolatis, obliquis, transverse et horizontaliter
     sitis, marginibus tomentosis: squamis calycinis superioribus
     spathulatis, angustis, tomentosis, margine piloso, incarnatis:
     squamis infra lato-ovatis, tomentosis, intus melliferis: caulis
     erectus, sesquipedalis.

     PROTEA with lance-shaped oblique leaves standing sideways in a
     horizontal direction, with downy edges. The upper scales of the
     empalement are spathula-shaped, narrow, downy, with hairy edges,
     and flesh-coloured. The scales beneath are broadly ovate, downy,
     and furnished with honey on the inner side. Stem upright, a foot
     and a half high.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower complete.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal.


This Protea may be regarded as an intermediate character between the P.
mellifera and that fine section of Protea speciosa; and certainly, in
point of beauty, deserves to be ranked among that showy division: but as
the principal leading feature in the Speciosas exists in the powerful
feathery fringe upon the edges of the imbrication, and the present one
possessing so very slight a characteristic of that description, we could
not with propriety rank it amongst them. Its affinity to the P.
mellifera is only in the honey-bearing character of its flowers, which,
like that species, contain a quantity of nectariferous juice. The
unoccupied term of coronata is adopted, from the resemblance its
imbrication bears to the form of a crown, and which is more apparent in
this species than in any other as yet in cultivation with us. Our figure
was made from the Clapham collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXX.

OPHRYS ARACHNOIDES.

_Spider-like Ophrys._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 5 petala, sub-ringens: petalis patentibus: labellum
     nectarii e basi styli, patens. Antheræ duæ, terminales, adnatæ.

     BLOSSOM 5 petals, nearly gaping: petals spreading: the lip of the
     honey-cup comes from the base of the shaft, spreading. Chives two,
     terminal, and close together.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     OPHRYS arachnoides, caule folioso: foliis lanceolatis,
     glauco-viridibus, striatis: corollis patentibus, sub-albis; tribus
     exterioribus obtusis; duabus interioribus acutis, brevissimis:
     labello nectarii magno, subrotundo, fusco, convexo, villoso: prope
     basin labelli duæ sunt appendiculæ oppositæ, flavæ: centrum
     nectarii interlineatum est, maculisque flavis notatum: et in medio
     marginis tuberculum carnosum.

     OPHRYS with spider-like flowers: leaves enfoliating the stem,
     lance-shaped, of a glaucous green and striped. Blossom spreading,
     and nearly white: the three outer ones are obtuse, the two inner
     ones pointed, and very small: the lip of the honey-cup is large,
     nearly round, brown, convex, and hairy: near the base of the
     nectary there are two opposite appendicles of a yellow colour: the
     centre of the honey-cup is interlined, and spotted with yellow; and
     in the centre of the margin there is a fleshy substance.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The blossom.
    2. The same shown from the outside.
    3. The honey-cup.
    4. Chives and pointal, magnified.


This interesting species of the Orchideæ family was sent from
Switzerland, by Dr. Messear, to the gardens of Isaac Swainson, esq. at
Twickenham, where it flowers annually. It is said to be a native of
Britain, France, Portugal, &c. and is known by the appellation of Ophrys
arachnoides, or spider-like, but is generally thought to bear a stronger
analogy to the humble bee. In the Flora Londinensis of Curtis, there is
a figure under the title of Ophrys fuciflora very much resembling our
plant in most particulars, except in the colour of the flower, which is
very different. The same plant is again figured in Dr. Smith’s English
Botany, under the specific of aranifera; and thus the plant is known
both as a spider and a drone. The arachnoides may therefore be
considered, if not a distinct species, as a very strong marked variety,
and is at present a scarce plant. It remains so long in bloom, that the
author observed it at the nursery of Messrs. Whitley and Brames, three
weeks after he had made the drawing, nearly as perfect as the figure
represents.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXI.

OPHRYS MYODES.

_Fly-like Ophrys._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 5 petala, sub-ringens: petalis patentibus: labellum
     nectarii e basi styli, patens. Antheræ duæ, terminates, adnatæ.

     BLOSSOM 5 petals, nearly gaping: petals spreading: the lip of the
     honey-cup comes from the base of the shaft, spreading. Chives two,
     terminal, and close together.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     OPHRYS myodes, floribus alternis, lateralibus: nectarii labio
     tripartito: laciniis lateralibus: lineari-lanceolatis, media
     oblonga, biloba, longior lateralibus: petalis patentibus: tribus
     exterioribus lanceolatis, viridibus, obtusis: duobus interioribus
     linearibus, brevissimis, purpureis: caule folioso: bulbo
     subrotundo.

     OPHRYS with fly-like flowers, alternate, and lateral: the lip of
     the honey-cup is three-cleft: the side segments are linear, and
     lance-shaped: the middle one is oblong, two-lobed, and longer than
     the side ones: the petals are spreading: the three outer ones are
     lance-shaped, green, and obtuse, the two inner ones are linear,
     very short, and purple: leaves enfoliating the stem: bulb roundish.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The blossom.
    2. The same shown from the outer side.
    3. The honey-cup.
    4. The same shown from the under side.
    5. Chives and pointal, magnified.


Amongst the Alpine plants of G. Hibbert, esq. we met with this curious
little insectiferous plant, and which, like the preceding figure, is
said to be indigenous to almost all Europe. It is figured in the English
Botany of Dr. Smith, but apparently from a taller plant, and differs in
the colour of the body. It is also represented in the Botanical
Magazine, of a higher stature, but nearly the same in colour. Variations
probably the mere effect of climate, and a different mode of culture. As
they all bear an unequivocal resemblance to the fly, so exact a
representation of ever so humble a species of animated nature will no
doubt be always thought deserving a place in every collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXII.

HIBBERTIA CRENATA.

_Scolloped-leaved Hibbertia._


CLASS XIII. ORDER X.

_POLYANDRIA DECAGYNIA._ Many Chives. Ten Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-phyllus. Petala 5. Stamina numerosa, receptaculo inserta.
     Germina quinque vel decem, desinentia in stylis, oligo-sperma.

     EMPALEMENT 5-leaved. Five petals. Chives numerous, inserted into
     the receptacle. Seed-buds 5 or 10, terminating in shafts,
     few-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     HIBBERTIA foliis crenatis, sub-cordatis: floribus solitariis,
     axillaribus, luteis, patentibus. Caulis fruticosus: ramis
     patentibus, numerosis, purpureis.

     HIBBERTIA with scolloped leaves nearly heart-shaped. Flowers grow
     singly from the insertion of the leaves, are of a yellow colour,
     and spreading. Stem shrubby. Branches spreading, numerous, and
     purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A petal.
    3. Chives and pointals.
    4. Seed-buds and pointals.
    5. A seed-bud and pointal, magnified.


This is an addition to the genus Hibbertia, but differs from the H.
volubilis in having ten pointals instead of five; and will most likely,
when more of the genus are in cultivation with us, form a section under
the title of decagynia, and the original of the genus as pentagynia: a
mode frequently adopted, to prevent that confusion too often attending
the formation of new genera. Under this arrangement the genus of
Hibbertia will be considerably enlarged, and certainly no genus more
deserves it than that which bears the name of such a liberal promoter of
botanic science.

Our figure represents the entire plant, from the nursery of Messrs.
Colville, where it was first raised from seeds received from New South
Wales.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXIII.

YUCCA GLORIOSA.

_Superb Yucca._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX nullus.

     COROLLA campanulata, sex-partita, unguibus cohærens: laciniis
     ovatis, maximis, patentibus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, brevissima, superne crassiora, reflexa.
     Antheræ minimæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, obtusum, triquetrum, staminibus
     longius. Stylus nullus. Stigma trisulcum, obtusum: laciniis
     bifidis, perviis.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, obtusa, triangularis, trilocularis,
     trivalvis.

     SEMINA plurima, gemino ordine incumbentia.

     EMPALEMENT none.

     BLOSSOM bell-shaped, six-divided, fastened together by the claws.
     The segments ovate, large, and spreading.

     CHIVES. Six threads, very short, thick above, and reflexed. Tips
     small.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong, blunt, three-sided, longer than the
     chives. Shaft none. Summit three-furrowed, obtuse. The segments are
     bifid, and may be passed through.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, obtuse, three-angled, three-celled,
     three-valved.

     SEEDS many, two-ranked, lying on each other.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     YUCCA floribunda, ramosa, patens: corollis campanulatis, pendulis:
     foliis ensiformibus, plicatis, apice mucronato.

     Habitat in America boreali.

     ADAM’S NEEDLE, with numerous flowers branching and spreading:
     blossoms bell-shaped, and hanging down. Leaves sword-shaped and
     plaited, with a mucronated point.

     Native of North America.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The end of a leaf.
    2. The plant in miniature.
    3. The chives and pointal.
    4. Seed-bud and pointal.
    5. The seed-bud cut transversely.


Of this genus of plants there are as yet known but four species. The
present one, from its specific title, might naturally be supposed to
possess a magnificent exterior of unrivalled beauty; which is by no
means the case: for although it is a grand plant when in fine bloom, the
term of gloriosa must certainly be regarded as a metaphysical hyperbole,
very inapplicable to any plant ever so beautiful. It is indigenous to
North America, and of great utility to the natives, who make cords from
the stringy texture of the leaves, and use it in the fabrication of
their houses, to fasten the ends of them together. Their swinging beds,
called Hamacks, are also said to be made of the same materials; and most
probably the sailor’s bed, so well known by the appellation of Hammock,
derives its title from the Hamack of the Indians. It is easily increased
from the young shoots, which become flowering plants in about five years
in the open ground: but if kept in the green-house, it might remain for
twenty years without blooming, for want of sufficient air and sun to
bring it to maturity.

Our figure are was made from a plant ten feet high, in luxuriant bloom,
at Hedsor Lodge, the seat of Lord Boston.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXIV.

PSORALEA PINNATA.

_Winged-leaved Psoralea._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX longitudine leguminis. Stamina diadelpha. Legumen
     monospermum, sub-rostratum, evalve.

     EMPALEMENT the length of the pod. Chives diadelphous. Pod
     one-seeded, beaked, and valveless.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PSORALEA pinnata, foliis patentibus apice acutis, recurvatis:
     floribus axillaribus, pedunculis longis.

     PSORALEA with winged leaves, spreading, sharp-pointed, and
     recurved. The flowers grow from the axillæ of the leaves upon long
     footstalks.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The standard of the blossom.
    3. One of the wings.
    4. One of the same shown from the inside.
    5. The chives.
    6. The seed-bud and pointal.


The Psoralea pinnata is a very ornamental plant for the conservatory,
and certainly deserves a coloured representation. At present there are
only two uncoloured engravings of it extant: one in the Flora
tetrapetala Rivinus, No. 5.; the other in Hermann’s Hortus Lugdunensis,
tab. 273. The Psoraleas are a well marked natural genus, and appear much
more characteristic of each other than many of the Papilonaceous genera.

Our drawing was made from a fine specimen received from the collection
of the Hon. W. Irby.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXV.

SERAPIAS CORDIGERA.

_Heart-bearing Serapias._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 5 petala, ringens: petalis conniventibus: labello nectarii
     ecalcarato: lamina deflexa: antheræ styli longitudine, adnatæ.

     BLOSSOM 5 petals, gaping: petals approaching together. The lip of
     the honey-cup growing from the spur: the lip bending downwards. The
     chives the length of the style, and attached to it.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     SERAPIAS foliis lanceolatis glaucis, ad basin maculatis. Nectarium
     tripartitum, ferrugineum: laciniis lateralibus obtusis, erectis,
     conniventibus: divisio media ovata, acuminata, pilosa, dependens:
     corollis implicatis, apice involutis, extus pallentibus, intus
     fusco purpurascentibus.

     SERAPIAS with lance-shaped glaucous leaves spotted at the base.
     Honey-cup three-divided, and of a rusty colour: the side segments
     obtuse, upright, and approaching: the middle division is ovate,
     sharp-pointed, hairy, and hanging down. Blossom folded together,
     and turned inwards at the point, pale-coloured on the outside, and
     of a purply brown on the inside.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The flower spread open.
    2. The lip of the honey-cup.
    3. The chives and pointal, with the spur of the honey-cup, magnified.


For this luxuriant specimen of the Serapias cordigera we are indebted to
the Right Hon. the Marquis of Blandford. It is a rare plant, of a
curious structure but very sombre aspect. It is one of those numerous
divisions of the class Gynandria approaching the genus Ophrys on the one
side, and Neottia on the other. From the Ophrys it is not easily
distinguished; but from Neottia it is separated by the difference of its
habit. This plant is well known by the title of cordigera, a specific
derived from the resemblance the lip of the nectarium is supposed to
bear to the shape of a heart: but the analogy is certainly not very
powerful. The flowers remain a considerable time in perfection. It is
indigenous to Spain, Barbary, Italy, &c.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXVI.

MELALEUCA DIOSMÆFOLIA.

_Diosma-leaved Melaleuca._


CLASS XVIII. ORDER IV.

_POLYADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads in many Sets. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinquefidus, semisuperus. Petala quinque. Filamenta multa,
     longissima, in quinque corpora connata. Pistillum unum. Capsula
     3-locularis.

     CUP five-cleft, half above. Petals five. Threads numerous, very
     long, united into five bodies. Pointal one. Capsule 3-celled.

     See Melaleuca Ericæfolia, Pl. 175. Vol. III.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MELALEUCA foliis alternatis, ovatis, reflexis, subtus punctatis,
     odoratis: floribus sessilibus in medio ramorum, viridibus,
     confertis: ramis verticillatis, patentibus.

     MELALEUCA with alternate leaves, ovate, and reflexed, punctured
     beneath, and sweet-scented. Flowers sessile about the middle of the
     branches, are of a green colour, and crowded together. The branches
     are whorled, and spreading.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower complete.
    2. A flower spread open, without the empalement.
    3. One of the five bundles of chives.
    4. Empalement, seed-bud, and pointal, summit magnified.
    5. A ripe seed-vessel.


This perfectly new species of Melaleuca was sent to us by Mr. J. Milne,
botanic gardener at Fonthill, who is very successful in the cultivation
of new plants. The punctured or dotted character on the under side of
the leaves gives it an affinity to the Diosma tribe, as does also its
scented foliage, which when rubbed emits a grateful aromatic odour; and
which the leaves retain in some degree when dried. The flowers, although
not splendid, are perhaps equally estimable from the rarity of their
colour, which is a bright green when in perfection; but in retiring they
acquire a yellower tint. It is a native of New Holland, and requires the
careful treatment of the green-house.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXVII.

LINUM VENUSTUM.

_Graceful Linum._


CLASS V. ORDER V.

_PENTANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Five Chives. Five Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-phyllus. Petala 5-phylla. Capsule 5-valvis, 10-locularis.
     Semina solitaria.

     EMPALEMENT 5-leaved. Petals 5-leaved. Capsule 5-valved. 10
     Loculaments. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LINUM foliis ovatis, acutis, 5-7-nervosis, margine pilosa: floribus
     in umbellis paniculatis: ramis alternis: corollis magnis,
     patentibus, incarnatis. Caulis erectus, pedalis.

     Nascens in Monte Caucaso.

     LINUM with ovate sharp-pointed leaves. Nerves from 5 to 7, and
     hairy at the edges. Flowers grow in paniculated umbels. Branches
     alternate. Blossom large, spreading, and flesh-coloured. Branches
     upright, a foot high.

     Native of Mount Caucasus.


This fine new Linum was raised from seed by Mr. J. Bell, in whose garden
near Brentford it has flowered for the first time in England. It is
nearest in affinity to the L. hirsutum of Jacquin, under which specific
title the seed was received by Mr. Bell. The flowers when dead or dried
lose their fine pinky tint, and acquire a blueish colour, the same as it
first appears with in the bud state. It might then compare with
Jacquin’s figure in point of colour, but would be too far removed in its
appearance for us to have adopted the specific of hirsutum with any
propriety. We may therefore with justice regard it as a beautiful
nondescript species. It is a native of Mount Caucasus, flowers in June
and July, and seeds so freely that it will no doubt be soon abundantly
cultivated.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXVIII.

CRINUM LATIFOLIUM.

_Broad-leaved Crinum._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA supra, infundibuliformis, sex-partita, æqualis: filamenta
     fauci tubi inserta: semina ad basin corollarum, vivipara.

     BLOSSOM above, funnel-shaped, six-parted, equal: threads inserted
     into the mouth of the tube: seeds at the base of the blossoms,
     viviparous.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CRINUM latifolium, undulatum, glabrum, lucidum: spatha multiflora:
     tubo corollæ laciniis longiore, quæ mucronatæ sunt: post
     florescentiam capsula crescit in bulbum magnum, et plantam format
     futuram.

     Habitat in Indiæ orientalis arenosis.

     CRINUM with broad, waved, smooth, shining leaves: sheath
     many-flowered: the tube of the blossom longer than the segments,
     which are pointed: and after flowering, the capsule swells into a
     large bulb, and forms the future plant.

     Native of the sandy parts of the East Indies.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A leaf.
    2. The plant in miniature.
    3. The chives, as attached to the tube of the flower.
    4. Seed-bud and pointal.
    5. The seed-bud, or bulb, inflated, as it appears after flowering.
    6. The same stripped of its outer covering.


The Crinum latifolium is certainly one of the most attractive of the
genus, as, in addition to the fine red colour of its flowers, it
possesses an aromatic odour of agreeable fragrance. It is a bulb-bearer,
as are all of this genus, although several of them have been placed
erroneously amongst the genus Amaryllis, which does not bear bulbs. The
genus Crinum, at present a short one, will therefore, with a good grace,
admit a few additions; whilst that of Amaryllis, already very extended,
will receive no injury by a slight curtailment. It is a native of the
dry sandy parts of the East Indies, and was introduced by Mr. Lambert in
the year 1803, but has not flowered till this summer--a period of four
years. But there is little doubt of its now blooming annually, as it is
not uncommon for bulbs imported from a great distance to enjoy a state
of quiescence after their arrival. Our figure was made from a fine plant
in luxuriant bloom in the hot-stove of J. Vere, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXIX.

FRAGARIA INDICA.

_Indian Strawberry._


CLASS XXII. ORDER V.

_ICOSANDRIA POLYGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. Many Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, planum, decemfidum: laciniis
     alternatim exterioribus, angustioribus.

     COROLLA. Petala quinque, subrotunda, patentia, calyci inserta.

     STAMINA. Filamenta viginti, subulata, corolla breviora, calyci
     inserta. Antheræ lunulares.

     PISTILLUM. Germina numerosa, minima, in capitulum collecta. Styli
     simplices, latere germinis inserti. Stigmata simplicia.

     PERICARPIUM nullum. Bacca fit receptaculum commune seminum,
     rotundo-ovata, pulposa, mollis, magna, colorata, basi truncata,
     decidua.

     SEMINA numerosa, minima, per superficiem receptaculi sparsa.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leafed, flat, ten-cleft: the segments are
     alternately exterior, and narrowed.

     BLOSSOM five-petalled, nearly round, spreading, and inserted into
     the calyx.

     CHIVES. Threads twenty, awl-shaped, shorter than the blossom,
     inserted into the calyx. Tips like a half-moon.

     POINTAL. Seed-buds numerous and small, collected into a head. Shaft
     simple, inserted into the side of the germ. Summit simple.

     SEED-VESSEL none. The berry becomes the common receptacle for the
     seeds, is of a round ovate form, pulpy, soft, large, and coloured,
     cut off at the base, and deciduous.

     SEEDS numerous, small, on the outside of the receptacle, scattered.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     FRAGARIA foliis tripartitis: foliolis ovatis, acutis, crenatis:
     petiolis longis: calyce decemfido, inferne piloso: quinque
     exterioribus rotundatis, crenatis: interioribus ovatis, acutis:
     pedunculis longis: floribus luteis: fructu rubro, insipido. Rami
     pilosi, repentes.

     STRAWBERRY with three-divided leaves: leaflets ovate, pointed, and
     scolloped: footstalks long: empalement ten-cleft, and hairy
     beneath: the five outer ones are rounded and notched: the inner
     ones are ovate, and pointed: peduncles long: flowers yellow: fruit
     red and insipid. Branches hairy, and creeping.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement, seed-buds, chives, and pointals.
    2. The same shown from the under side.
    3. A petal.
    4. Seed-buds, chives, and pointals.
    5. A seed-bud and pointal.
    6. The same magnified.
    7. A seed-bud from the ripe fruit.
    8. The same magnified.


This new species of Fragaria, from the lively yellow flowers and
brilliance of its fine red fruit, is desirable as an ornamental plant,
but is in no other respect estimable, from the insipidity of its fruit,
which is entirely destitute of flavour. It is a native of the north-east
parts of Bengal. Our figure was made from the only plant that has as yet
flowered in England, in the gardens of the Honourable C. Greville.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXX.

VACCINIUM NITIDUM.

_Shining-leaved Whortle-berry._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX superus. Corolla monopetala. Filamenta receptaculo inserta.
     Bacca quadrilocularis, polysperma.

     CUP superior. Blossom of one petal. Threads fixed to the
     receptacle. A berry with four cells, and many seeds.

     See Vol. I. Pl. XXX. VACCINIUM ARCTOSTAPHYLLUS.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     VACCINIUM foliis nitidis, ovatis, acutis, obsolete serratis:
     floribus umbellatis, terminalibus, pendulis: corollis
     sub-cylindraceis. Stamina decem: ramis oppositis, alternatis.
     Caulis pedalis, erectus.

     WHORTLE-BERRY with shining leaves, egg-shaped, sharp-pointed, and
     obscurely sawed. Flowers grow in umbels, terminal and pendulous:
     blossom nearly cylindrical: chives ten: branches opposite, and
     alternate. Stem a foot high, and upright.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The blossom spread open.
    2. The chives spread.
    3. A chive magnified.
    4. Empalement, seed-bud, and pointal.


The Vaccinium nitidum is one of the handsomest species, but not so often
to be met with as many of the genus. It is nearly allied in its foliage
to the V. crassifolium; for, if leaves of both were detached, and mixt
together, they might be easily mistaken. The habits of the plants are,
however, very distinct, as is also the shape of the flowers. During the
month of May and beginning of June this plant is in the greatest
perfection. After that period the flowers lose much of their fine red
colour. Our figure was made from a beautiful little shrub, above a foot
high, in the nursery of Messrs. Whitley and Brames.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXXI.

CINCHONA CARIBÆA.

_West India Bark-tree._


CLASS V. ORDER II.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, superum, campanulatum, 5-dentatum,
     persistens.

     COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis, 5-partita.

     STAMINA. Filamenta 5, minima: antheræ oblongæ, intra faucem
     corollæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, inferum. Stylus longitudine corollæ.
     Stigma crassiusculum, oblongum, simplex.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, bipartita, calyce coronata, in duas
     partes dehiscens: partes interiores dehiscentes, dissepimento
     parallelo.

     SEMINA plura, oblonga, compressa, marginata.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leafed, above, bell-shaped, five-toothed, and
     remaining.

     BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped, and five-parted.

     CHIVES. Threads 5, small: tips oblong, within the mouth of the
     blossom.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud nearly round, beneath. Shaft the length of the
     corolla. Summit thickish, oblong, and simple.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, in two parts, crowned by the cup, the
     two parts cleaving together; the inner parts gaping, with equal
     dissepiment.

     SEEDS many, oblong, compressed, and emarginated.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CINCHONA foliis alternatis, ovatis, acuminatis, integerrimis,
     glabris, venosis: inter folia stipula parva, cauli adpressa:
     floribus axillaribus, simplicibus, albicantibus, glabris,
     odoratissimis. Rami alternati, oppositi.

     Habitat in Caribæis: succedaneum cortici Peruviano.

     CINCHONA with alternate leaves, sharp-pointed, entire, smooth, and
     veined: between the leaves there is a small stipula pressed to the
     stem: flowers axillary, and single, of a whitish colour, smooth,
     and very sweet-scented: branches alternate, and opposite.

     Native of the Caribæan Islands: as bark, substituted for the
     Peruvian species.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower spread open.
    2. The empalement, seed-bud, and pointal.
    3. A capsule.


This specimen of the Cinchona Caribæa, or Jesuits Bark of Jamaica, was
communicated to the author by A. B. Lambert, esq. who raised it from
seed, and with whom it has flowered for the first time in this kingdom.
Opinions are various as to the time and means by which the medicinal
virtues of the Peruvian bark were first discovered; but as the discovery
of most very useful things is generally the effect of chance, Geoffroy’s
account of it (as given in the Medical Botany of Dr. Woodville) is
certainly the most natural, who states it to have been occasioned by
some Cinchona trees having been blown into a pool of water, and lying
there till the water became so bitter that nobody would drink it, till
one of the neighbouring inhabitants being seized with a violent paroxysm
of fever, and having no other water, drank of this, and was perfectly
cured. He prevailed on some of his friends, who were ill, to make use of
the same remedy, and it proved successful. But the use of it was little
known till the year 1638, when a signal cure being performed on the
Countess del Cinchon, the lady of a Spanish viceroy at Lima, (from whom
it derives its generic title) it came into general use, and a large
quantity of the bark was by that lady distributed amongst the Jesuits,
in whose hands it increased in reputation, and was by them first
introduced into Europe. The Caribæan species is said to be an excellent
substitute for the Peruvian bark, and therefore a most valuable
acquisition to us; as Mr. Lambert, in his description of the genus
Cinchona, informs us that well grounded fears are entertained of the
Peruvian species being some day lost to us, as, from the extreme
decortication they have experienced, they are nearly extinct in those
parts where they were formerly most abundant.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXXII.

DIANTHUS ALPINUS.

_Alpine Pink._


CLASS VI. ORDER II.

_DECANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Ten Chives. Two Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium cylindricum, tubulosum, striatum, persistens: os
     5-dentatum, basi squamulis quatuor cinctum, quarum interdum duæ
     oppositæ, inferiores.

     COROLLA. Petala 5. Ungues longitudine calycis, angusti, receptaculo
     inserti: limbus extus planus, laminis late obtusis, crenatis.

     STAMINA. Filamenta decem, subulata, longitudine calycis: antheræ
     ovales, oblongæ, compressæ, incumbentes.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovale. Styli duo, subulati, staminibus longiores.
     Stigmata recurvata, acuminata.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula cylindrica, recta, unilocularis,
     quadrilateralis, apice dehiscens.

     SEMINA plurima, compressa, subrotunda, a receptaculo liberata.

     EMPALEMENT cylindrical, tubular, lined, remaining: the mouth is
     5-toothed, surrounded by four squamæ at the base, or sometimes two
     opposite ones beneath.

     BLOSSOM 5 petals: the claws the length of the calyx, narrow, and
     inserted into the receptacle: border flat without, broadly obtuse,
     and notched.

     CHIVES. Ten threads, awl-shaped, the length of the calyx: tips
     oval, oblong, compressed, and incumbent.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud oval. Shafts two, awl-shaped, and longer than the
     chives. Summit recurved, and pointed.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule cylindrical, straight, one loculament,
     four-sided, and splitting at the end.

     SEEDS many, compressed, nearly round, and freed from the
     receptacle.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     DIANTHUS alpinus. Frutex pygmæus, elegans, foliis oppositis,
     alternis, linearibus, curvatis, brevibus: floribus terminalibus,
     rubris, in medio circulo albo.

     ALPINE pink. An elegant dwarf shrub, with opposite alternate
     leaves, linear, curved, and short. Flowers terminal and red, with a
     small circle of white in the centre.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A petal shown from the under side.
    3. Seed-bud, chives, and pointals.
    4. The chives spread open.
    5. Seed-bud and pointals.
    6. The seed-bud cut transversely.


The Dianthus alpinus is a very scarce plant, little known, and rarely to
be met with in any collection, although its beauty renders it deserving
a place in every one, and its size would never exclude it from any. Our
figure represents the entire plant, from the collection of Isaac
Swainson, esq. who raised it from seed which he received from Germany.
The only coloured representation of it extant is in the Flora Austriaca
of Jacquin, from a native specimen, and of no greater magnitude than our
figure represents--a diminutive stature, particularly characteristic of
the true Alpine pink.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXXIII.

DAHLIA PINNATA NANA.

_Dwarf Winged-leaved Dahlia._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX duplex. Corolla radiata, radiis lacinias calycis numero
     æquantibus: corollulæ pedicellatæ. Receptaculum paleaceum. Stigmata
     plumosa.

     EMPALEMENT double. Blossom radiated, with the rays equalling in
     number the segments of the empalement: the florets pedicelled.
     Receptacle chaffy. Summit plumose.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     DAHLIA foliis pinnatis: pinnulis quinque, ovatis, acutis, dentatis:
     floribus duplicibus: caulis humilis.

     DAHLIA with pinnated leaves: the pinnules five, ovate, pointed, and
     toothed: flowers double: stem low.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. One of the radiating florets.
    2. A floret of the disk with its scale.
    3. A flower spread open.
    4. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.


This double-flowered dwarf Dahlia is certainly the most attractive of
the genus. It is supposed to be only a variety of the D. pinnata, but
the variation is almost powerful enough to constitute a species; as,
besides the difference in its flowers, we have never found it arrive to
more than half the height of the pinnata, although we have seen it every
autumn for four years in luxuriant bloom. At present it is a scarce
plant, and appears to be not quite so hardy as the taller species, nor
so easily increased. Our figure was made from a plant in the collection
of the Right Hon. Lady Holland, at Holland House, Kensington.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXXIV.

NICOTIANA GLUTINOSA.

_Clammy Tobacco._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, ovatum, 5-fidum, persistens.

     COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis: tubus calyce longior: limbus
     patulus, 5-fidus, 5-plicatus.

     STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata, vix longitudine corollas,
     adscendentia: antheræ oblongæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine corollæ.
     Stigma capitatum, emarginatum.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula sub-ovata, lineâ utrinque insculptâ:
     bilocularis: bivalvis, apice dehiscens: receptaculum dimidiatum,
     ovatum, punctatum: dissepimentis affixis.

     SEMINA numerosa, reniformia, rugosa.

     EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leafed, ovate, 5-cleft, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped: tube longer than the calyx:
     segments spreading, 5-cleft, 5-plaited.

     CHIVES. Threads five, awl-shaped, scarcely the length of the
     blossom, and ascending: tips oblong.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud ovate. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of the
     blossom. Summit headed, and emarginated.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule nearly egg-shaped, with a line imprinted on
     both sides: two loculaments: two valves, splitting at the point:
     receptacle half-way divided, ovate, and dotted: dissepiments
     cleaving together.

     SEEDS numerous, kidney-shaped, and rough.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     NICOTIANA foliis petiolatis, sub-cordatis, glandulis minutis
     viscosis circumsessis: floribus alternis, solitariis, ad partem
     superam ramorum: corolla campanulata, pallide purpurea, viscosa:
     ramis glandulis minutis tectis, viscosis.

     Habitat in Peru.

     TOBACCO with petiolated and nearly heart-shaped leaves, beset with
     minute viscous glands: flowers grow solitary and alternate on the
     upper part of the branches: blossom bell-shaped, of a pale purple,
     and viscous: the branches covered with glands very small, and
     clammy.

     Native of Peru.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The blossom spread.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.


This species of Nicotiana is called the Spanish Tobacco; and although we
cannot exactly ascertain whether it is cultivated for the purpose of
manufacturing into tobacco or snuff, yet there is little doubt of that
being the case. The general appearance of this species very much
resembles the common Tobacco plant, so well known. The most ostensible
difference appears to exist in the glutinous character of the present
species, whose stalks, leaves, and flowers are beset by numerous little
glands, that emit a viscid juice. There is not much beauty attached to
it; but, as a scarce and unfigured species, it well deserves a
representation, as would any species of a genus that forms so
considerable a branch in the commerce of a mercantile country. Our
figure was made from a fine specimen received from A. B. Lambert, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXXV.

MELALEUCA SALICIFOLIA.

_Willow-leaved Melaleuca._


CLASS XVIII. ORDER IV.

_POLYADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads in many Sets. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinquefidus, semisuperus. Petala quinque. Filamenta multa,
     longissima, in quinque corpora connata. Pistillum unum. Capsula
     3-locularis.

     CUP five-cleft, half above. Petals five. Threads numerous, very
     long, united into five bodies. Pointal one. Capsule 3-celled.

     See Melaleuca Ericæfolia, Pl. 175. Vol. III.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MELALEUCA foliis oppositis, lanceolatis, punctatis: floribus
     paniculatis: corollis luteis, magnis, et patentibus: ramis
     oppositis, alternatis: caulis erectus.

     MELALEUCA with opposite lance-shaped leaves, dotted: flowers grow
     in panicles: blossoms yellow, large, and spreading: branches
     opposite, and alternate: stem upright.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower complete, spread open.
    2. The same shown from the outside.
    3. One of the bundles of chives.
    4. Empalement, seed-bud, and pointal.


Very few species of plants revolt so much in appearance from their
original genus as the present one, whose exterior bears very little
resemblance to Melaleuca, although, upon examination, it perfectly
accords in every particular. It is a native of New Holland, and, we are
informed, was first raised from seed by Mr. Barr, nurseryman at Ball’s
Pond, Islington.

Our figure was made from a plant in fine bloom at the nursery of Messrs.
Whitley and Brames.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXXVI.

PÆONIA DAURICA.

_Dauric Pæony._


CLASS XIII. ORDER II.

_POLYANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Many Chives. Two Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-phyllus. Petala 5. Stylus 0. Capsulæ polyspermæ.

     CUP 5-leaved. Petals 5. Pointal none. Capsules many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PÆONIA foliis pinnatis: foliolis sub-ovatis, glaucis: floribus
     rubro-purpureis: caulis herbaceus, bipedalis.

     PÆONY with winged leaves: the leaflets are nearly egg-shaped, and
     glaucous: flowers of a red purple: stem herbaceous, and about two
     feet high.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement and seed-buds.
    2. A chive.
    3. The seed-buds as they appear when the seeds are nearly perfect.


This fine Pæony is at present a scarce plant; nor is there any figure of
it extant, if not in the Flora Russica of Dr. Pallas. The specimen our
figure represents was received from Mr. J. Bell, who raised it from
seed, and with whom it has flowered for the first time in this country.
It may with propriety be ranked among the most attractive of the
herbaceous species. The flowers expand in the early part of summer; and
from the cold climate whence it is indigenous, little doubt need be
entertained of its resisting our winter, if it can but endure the sudden
changes of weather to which this island is subject; a transition that
frequently proves more fatal to plants the natives of a cold northern
clime, than to those of southern origin.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXXVII.

XERANTHEMUM HERBACEUM.

_Herbaceous Eternal Flower._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIS POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     RECEPTACULUM paleaceum, aut nudum. Pappus setaceus. Calyx
     imbricatus, radiatus, radio colorato.

     RECEPTACLE chaffy, or naked. Feather bristly. Empalement tiled,
     rayed, the ray coloured.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     XERANTHEMUM herbaceum: foliis amplexicaulibus, oblongis, margine
     revolutis, lanâ albâ tectis: floribus terminalibus, solitariis,
     pallide aurantiis, nitidissimis: squamæ inferæ fulvescentes.

     XERANTHEMUM with an herbaceous stem: leaves embracing the stem,
     oblong, rolled back at the edges, and covered with a white wool:
     flowers terminate the branches singly, are of a pale gold colour,
     and very shining: the lower scales are of a foxy tint.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. One of the radiating scales.
    2. A floret of the disk.
    3. The chives and pointal.
    4. Leaf of a variety.


This handsome species of Xeranthemum may be regarded as truly
herbaceous, as the plant not only dies down annually, but even whilst
living keeps constantly sending up fresh shoots from the root. The white
appearance of the leaves is owing to their being enveloped by a kind of
wool: but there are two varieties; the one whose foliage is almost
without this woolly coat, and the other entirely divested of it, and of
a rich green colour; but in every other particular the plants are all
exactly alike.

Our figure was made from a small plant in fine flower in the
conservatory of G. Hibbert, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXXVIII.

BROUSSONETIA PAPYRIFERA.

_Paper Mulberry._


CLASS XXII. ORDER IV.

_DIŒCIA TETRANDRIA._ Chives and Pointals on different Plants. Four
Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

* _Masculi flores._

     AMENTUM cylindraceum.

     CALYX 4-partitus. Corolla nulla.

* _Feminei flores._

     AMENTUM globosum, floribus undique tectum.

     CALYX inferus, persistens, 3-seu 4-dentatus. Corolla nulla. Stylus
     filiformis. Fructus cylindraceo-clavatus, apice bilabiatus.

     SEMEN nudum ad apicem fructûs.

* _Male flowers._

     CATKIN cylindrical.

     EMPALEMENT 4-divided. Blossom none.

* _Female flowers._

     CATKIN globular, covered all over by flowers.

     EMPALEMENT beneath and remaining, 3-sometimes 4-toothed. Blossom
     none. Shaft thread-shaped. Fruit cylindrically club-shaped, and
     two-lipped at the point.

     SEED naked at the point of the fruit.

     _Broussonetia papyrifera. Vent. Tab. Veg. et Willd. Sp. Pl._


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     BROUSSONETIA foliis tri-vel quinque-lobis, acutis, serratis, supra
     scabris, subtus pubescentibus.

     BROUSSONETIA with leaves from 3-to 5-lobed, pointed, sawed, rough
     on the upper surface, and softly haired beneath.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    _Male Plant._

    1. An empalement and chives, in an infant state.
    2. The same magnified.
    3. An empalement and chives in perfection.
    4. The same magnified.

    _Female Plant._

    1. The catkin with a pointal detached.
    2. A section of the same when in fruit.
    3. One of the florets with the seed detached.
    4. A seed cut in two, and magnified.


This useful plant is the Morus papyrifera of Linnæus, but certainly
would not have been so called by him, had both, the male and female
plant come under his inspection, as it does not belong either to the
class or order of the Mulberry. Neither of the plants, when in bloom,
possesses much beauty, but they have rather a sombre aspect: yet the
female plant, when in fruit, is certainly very handsome. In Japan and
the South Sea Islands, where it is indigenous, the bark of it serves to
make a clothing for the natives. In Japan, it not only makes cloth for
them, but all the Japanese paper is made from the bark of it. There are
four sorts. The first is a royal size, of a square form, very smooth,
and painted on one side. The second is a fine letter paper, in sheets
often three feet long. The third is used for covering their best
varnished articles, and so fine as sometimes to look like a spider’s
web. The fourth is a common writing-paper, varying in size and form. The
process of its manufacture is by cutting off the shoots after the leaves
fall, and boiling them till the bark separates. It is then peeled off,
and steeped 3 or 4 hours in water, to purify, and the black outer
cuticle, and green matter within, are scraped off and separated,
according to their qualities. It is again boiled with a little ashes,
and stirred with a bamboo stick; and the boiling is complete when its
downy fibres can be separated with a touch of the finger. It is then
agitated in water till it appears like a lump of tow, and again beat
with camphor wood battens, and strained, for the coarser paper. An
infusion of the roots of the Hibiscus manihot, or the leaves of Rivaria
Japonica, with the flour of Japan rice, is then mixed with it, and
poured on their moulds; which are not, like ours, formed of wire, but of
fine rushes, and the sheets laid on a matted table with a fine shred of
bamboo between each, and covered by a board with a stone upon it, to
squeeze out the water, dried the next day singly on flat boards, and
then packed up for sale.

Our figure was made from fine plants in the garden of J. Vere, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCLXXXIX.

GNAPHALIUM GRANDIFLORUM.

_Large-flowered Gnaphalium._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Polygamy.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     RECEPTACULUM nudum. Pappus pilosus, vel plumosus. Calyx imbricatus,
     radiatus, radio colorato.

     RECEPTACLE naked. Down hairy, or feathery. Empalement imbricated,
     rayed, with the ray coloured.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     GNAPHALIUM grandiflorum: floribus paniculatis, albis, lucidis:
     pedunculis albis, lanatis: foliis ovato-acutis, albâ lanâ tectis.

     GNAPHALIUM with large flowers: flowers grow in panicles, white, and
     shining: footstalks white, and woolly: leaves are ovate-pointed,
     and covered with a white wool.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A scale of the empalement.
    2. The same shown from the under side.
    3. A flower complete.
    4. The same magnified.
    5. The seed-bud, chives, and pointal magnified.
    6. Seed-bud and pointal.
    7. The same magnified.


This Gnaphalium is at present the largest flowering species (the G.
eximium excepted). Its flowers are equally durable with those of any
Xeranthemum, nor does it vary essentially in any particular from that
genus (as a section of which it would have been much better understood).
The genus Elychrisum we find, upon examination, to be built upon the
same equivocal ground, and there is little doubt but at some future
period those two superfluous genera will fall into the old Linnæan genus
of Xeranthemum. Our figure was made from a fine plant in the Clapham
collection, about a foot and a half high. We have seen it grow much
taller, but it is not then so handsome. It is certainly not a new plant,
but has not been as yet figured in any modern publication. The whiteness
so prevalent in its flowers and leaves (by way of contrast to the green
foliage of most other plants) would render it deserving a place in every
collection, even if its long-lived shining flowers were not a sufficient
recommendation.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXC.

PONTEDERIA DILATATA.

_Dilated Pontederia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX. Spatha communis, oblonga, latere dehiscens.

     COROLLA monopetala, 6-fida.

     STAMINA. Filamenta sex, corollæ inserta. Antheræ oblongæ.

     PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, inferum. Stylus simplex.

     PERICARPIUM. Capsula trilocularis, triangularis.

     SEMINA plurima.

     OBS. In quibusdam speciebus germen est superum: in aliis inferum.

     EMPALEMENT. Spathe common, oblong, opening sideways.

     BLOSSOM one-petalled, 6-cleft.

     CHIVES. Threads six, inserted into the blossom. Tips oblong.

     POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong, beneath. Shaft simple.

     SEED-VESSEL. Capsule three-locular, three-angled.

     SEEDS many.

     OBS. In some species the seed-bud is above, in others beneath.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PONTEDERIA germine supero: foliis sagittatis, obtusis, vel acutis:
     floribus umbellatis, confertis, cæruleis.

     Habitat in India Orientali.

     PONTEDERIA with the seed-buds above: leaves arrow-shaped, obtuse,
     or pointed: flowers in crowded umbels, of a blue colour.

     Native of the East Indies.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A blossom spread open.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.
    3. The plant in miniature.


This handsome aquatic is a native of the East Indies, and figured in
Col. Syms’s Embassy to the Kingdom of Ava, under the title of Pontederia
dilatata. On examining some plants in the hot-house of J. Vere, esq.
(whence our figure was taken) we observed so much variation in them,
that we are inclined to think the P. hastata of Dr. Roxburgh’s
Coromandel Plants represents (from a weak plant) the same species our
figure delineates.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXCI.

GARDENIA RADICANS.

_Rooting Gardenia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 1-phyllus, 5-fidus, persistens.

     COROLLA contorta, monopetala, 5-partita.

     STAMINA. Filamenta nulla. Antheræ quinque. Bacca infera,
     2-locularis, polysperma. Stylus elevatus, bilobus.

     EMPALEMENT 1-leafed, 5-parted, and remaining.

     BLOSSOM twisted, one-leafed, 5-parted.

     CHIVES. Threads none. Tips 5. Berry beneath, 2 loculaments,
     many-seeded. Shaft above, 2-lobed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     GARDENIA foliis lanceolatis: corollis hypocrateriformibus, albis,
     odoratissimis: calyce angulato: caule radicante.

     GARDENIA with lance-shaped leaves: blossom pitcher-shaped, white,
     and very sweet-scented: cup angular: stem rooting.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.


The Gardenia radirans is a native of Japan, and is figured by Thunberg
in his Botanical Dissertation. The figure is small and coarse, but yet
characteristic. We have represented a fine young plant, as its fragrant
flowers are then much better relieved by the surrounding leaves. It is
at present cultivated in the hot-house; but we are inclined to think it
might succeed in the protection of the green-house. The luxuriance of
its petals frequently absorbs nearly all the parts of fructification.
But our specimen fortunately afforded three antheræ out of the five, and
the pointal entire.

Our figure was made from a plant in the nursery of Messrs. Whitley and
Brames.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCCXCII.

OXYLOBIUM CORDIFOLIUM.

_Heart-leaved Oxylobium._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX simplex, quinquepartitus.

     COROLLA papilionacea.

     STYLUS subulatus. Stigma obtusum.

     LEGUMEN ovato-acuminatum, apice compressum, polyspermum.

     EMPALEMENT simple, five-parted.

     BLOSSOM butterfly-shaped.

     SHAFT awl-shaped. Summit blunt.

     POD pointedly egg-shaped, compressed at the end, and many-seeded.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

     1. A leaf magnified.
     2. The empalement.
     3. The standard.
     4. A back view of the same.
     5. One of the wings.
     6. The keel.
     7. The chives.
     8. The same spread open, one tip magnified.
     9. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.
    10. A ripe seed-vessel.
    11. The same spread open.


Plants of a Papilionaceous character furnish the most frequent
opportunity for generic divisions. Nine Genera have already been made by
Dr. Smith and others to contain the Butterfly flowers of New Holland.
Our little novelty agrees with neither. From Pultenæa, Aotus, Mirbelia,
and Dillwynia, it differs in the pod not being two-seeded. The two last
genera have also the cups two-lipped, and the first with appendages
attached to it. Gompholobium has a globular pod, and Chorizema an oblong
one and a bilabiate calyx. Daviesia, Viminaria, and Sphærolobium have
pods one-seeded. Thus situated, we are under the necessity of adding one
more to the number of genera, perhaps already too extended. We have
never seen it exceed a foot in height. The foliage is mostly in whorls:
and the stem, leaves, cups, and fruits are hairy.

Our figure represents one of the plants from the nursery of Messrs.
Loddige, who first raised it from seed, and where we observed its
brilliant little flowers in successive bloom for at least six months.

[Illustration]




INDEX

TO THE PLANTS CONTAINED IN VOL. VII.


Plate
433  Agave Americana          Great American Aloe            G. H.  Shrub.    September.
434  Pultenæa nana            Dwarf Pultenæa                 G. H.  Shrub.    All Summer.
435  Verbena mutabilis        Changeable-flowered Vervain    H. H.  Shrub.    All the Year.
436  Corræa viridiflora       Green-flowered Corræa          G. H.  Shrub.    March.
437  Protea canaliculata      Channelled-leaved Protea       G. H.  Shrub.    December.
438  Protea speciosa          Showy Protea                   G. H.  Shrub.    December.
439  Stapelia orbicularis     Orbicular Stapelia             G. H.  Shrub.    December.
440  Sophora sericea          Silky-leaved Sophora           G. H.  Shrub.    December.
441  Epidendrum fuscatum      Brown-flowered Epidendrum      H. H.  Shrub.    June.
442  Protea pulchella,
     _Var. speciosa_
     Waved-leaved Protea,     _Specious Variety_             G. H.  Shrub.    April.
443  Erythrina speciosa       Showy Erythrina                H. H.  Shrub.    April.
444  Lobelia hirsuta          Hairy Lobelia                  G. H.  Shrub.    March.
445  Epidendrum lineare       Linear-leaved Epidendrum       H. H.  Shrub.    July.
446  Dolichos hirsutus        Hairy-stemmed Dolichos         H. H.  Shrub.    August.
447  Protea argentiflora      Silvery-flowered Protea        G. H.  Shrub.    August.
448  Pæonia suffruticosa,
     _Var. flore purpureo_    Shrubby Pæonia,
                                _Purple-flowered Variety_    G. H.  Shrub.    April.
449  Linum trigynum           Three-styled Golden Flax       G. H.  Shrub.    April.
450  Albuca fastigiata        Level-topped Albuca            G. H.  Bulb.     July.
451  Diosma ericæfolia        Heath-leaved Diosma            G. H.  Shrub.    All the Year.
452  Achania mollis           Soft-haired-leaved Achania     H. H.  Shrub.    July.
453  Protea repens            Creeping Protea                G. H.  Shrub.    June.
454  Urtica baccifera         Berry-bearing Nettle           H. H.  Shrub.    June.
455  Polygala mixta           Mixt Polygala                  G. H.  Shrub.    All the Year.
456  Lachenalia flava         Yellow-flowered Lachenalia     G. H.  Bulb.     June.
457  Banksia spinulosa        Thorny-leaved Banksia          G. H.  Shrub.    All Summer.
458  Eugenia malaccensis      Malay Apple-tree               H. H.  Tree.     July.
459  Lasiopetalum ferrugineum Oak-leaved Lasiopetalum        G. H.  Shrub.    June.
460  Lachenalia sessiliflora  Sessile-flowered Lachenalia    G. H.  Bulb.     July.
461  Protea teretifolia       Cylindric-leaved Protea        G. H.  Shrub.    June.
462  Malus Japonica           Scarlet-flowering Japan Apple  Har.   Shrub.    June.
463  Pæonia papavaracea       Poppy-like Pæony               G. H.  Shrub.    July.
464  Diosma ovata             Oval-leaved Diosma             G. H.  Shrub.    May.
465  Protea divaricata        Straddling-leaved Protea       G. H.  Shrub.    July.
466  Goodenia tenella         Slender Goodenia               G. H.  Shrub.    June.
467  Lythrum fruticosum       Shrubby Lythrum                G. H.  Shrub.    All Summer.
468  Aloe arborescens         Tree Aloe                      H. H.  Shrub.    June.
469  Protea coronata          Crown-flowered Protea          G. H.  Shrub.    July.
470  Ophrys arachnoides       Spider-like Ophrys             G. H.  Shrub.    July.
471  Ophrys myodes            Fly-like Ophrys                G. H.  Shrub.    July.
472  Hibbertia crenata        Scolloped-leaved Hibbertia     G. H.  Shrub.    July.
473  Yucca gloriosa           Superb Yucca                   Har.   Shrub.    July.
474  Psoralea pinnata         Winged-leaved Psoralea         G. H.  Shrub.    July.
475  Serapias cordigera       Heart-bearing Serapias         H. H.  Shrub.    June.
476  Melaleuca diosmæfolia    Diosma-leaved Melaleuca        G. H.  Shrub.    July.
477  Linum venustum           Graceful Linum                 Har.   Shrub.    July.
478  Crinum latifolium        Broad-leaved Crinum            H. H.  Bulb.     August.
479  Fragaria indica          Indian Strawberry              Har.   Herb.     July.
480  Vaccinium nitidum        Shining-leaved Whortle-berry   Har.   Shrub.    June.
481  Cinchona caribæa         West India Bark-tree           H. H.  Shrub.    August.
482  Dianthus alpinus         Alpine Pink                    G. H.  Shrub.    July.
483  Dahlia pinnata nana      Dwarf winged-leaved Dahlia     G. H.  Herb.     September.
484  Nicotiana glutinosa      Clammy Tobacco                 G. H.  Herb.     August.
485  Melaleuca salicifolia    Willow-leaved Melaleuca        G. H.  Shrub.    July.
486  Pæonia Daurica           Dauric Pæony                   Har.   Herb.     June.
487  Xeranthemum herbaceum    Herbaceous Eternal Flower      G. H.  Herb.     All Summer.
488  Broussonetia papyrifera  Paper Mulberry                 Har.   Shrub.    June.
489  Gnaphalium grandiflorum  Large-flowered Gnaphalium      G. H.  Shrub.    August.
490  Pontederia dilatata      Dilated Pontederia             H. H.  Aquatic.  September.
491  Gardenia radicans        Rooting Gardenia               H. H.  Shrub.    August.
492  Oxylobium cordifolium    Heart-leaved Oxylobium         G. H.  Shrub.    July.


ERRATA.

Plate 438 read 433.
      467 instead of Lythrum of Linnæus, read Lythrum _fruticosum_ of Linnæus.
      468 line 4 from the bottom, instead of _height_ read _size_.






*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOTANIST'S REPOSITORY FOR NEW AND RARE PLANTS; VOL. 7 ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


